'\" t
.TH TQBitArray 3qt "2 February 2007" "Trolltech AS" \" -*- nroff -*-
.\" Copyright 1992-2007 Trolltech ASA.  All rights reserved.  See the
.\" license file included in the distribution for a complete license
.\" statement.
.\"
.ad l
.nh
.SH NAME
TQBitArray \- Array of bits
.SH SYNOPSIS
All the functions in this class are reentrant when TQt is built with thread support.</p>
.PP
\fC#include <tqbitarray.h>\fR
.PP
Inherits TQByteArray.
.PP
.SS "Public Members"
.in +1c
.ti -1c
.BI "\fBTQBitArray\fR ()"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "\fBTQBitArray\fR ( uint size )"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "\fBTQBitArray\fR ( const TQBitArray & a )"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "TQBitArray & \fBoperator=\fR ( const TQBitArray & a )"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "uint \fBsize\fR () const"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "bool \fBresize\fR ( uint size )"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "bool \fBfill\fR ( bool v, int size = -1 )"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "virtual void \fBdetach\fR ()"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "TQBitArray \fBcopy\fR () const"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "bool \fBtestBit\fR ( uint index ) const"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "void \fBsetBit\fR ( uint index )"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "void \fBsetBit\fR ( uint index, bool value )"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "void \fBclearBit\fR ( uint index )"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "bool \fBtoggleBit\fR ( uint index )"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "bool \fBat\fR ( uint index ) const"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "TQBitVal \fBoperator[]\fR ( int index )"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "bool \fBoperator[]\fR ( int index ) const"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "TQBitArray & \fBoperator&=\fR ( const TQBitArray & a )"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "TQBitArray & \fBoperator|=\fR ( const TQBitArray & a )"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "TQBitArray & \fBoperator^=\fR ( const TQBitArray & a )"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "TQBitArray \fBoperator~\fR () const"
.br
.in -1c
.SH RELATED FUNCTION DOCUMENTATION
.in +1c
.ti -1c
.BI "TQBitArray \fBoperator&\fR ( const TQBitArray & a1, const TQBitArray & a2 )"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "TQBitArray \fBoperator|\fR ( const TQBitArray & a1, const TQBitArray & a2 )"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "TQBitArray \fBoperator^\fR ( const TQBitArray & a1, const TQBitArray & a2 )"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "TQDataStream & \fBoperator<<\fR ( TQDataStream & s, const TQBitArray & a )"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "TQDataStream & \fBoperator>>\fR ( TQDataStream & s, TQBitArray & a )"
.br
.in -1c
.SH DESCRIPTION
The TQBitArray class provides an array of bits.
.PP
Because TQBitArray is a TQMemArray, it uses explicit sharing with a reference count.
.PP
A TQBitArray is a special byte array that can access individual bits and perform bit-operations (AND, OR, XOR and NOT) on entire arrays or bits.
.PP
Bits can be manipulated by the setBit() and clearBit() functions, but it is also possible to use the indexing [] operator to test and set individual bits. The [] operator is a little slower than setBit() and clearBit() because some tricks are required to implement single-bit assignments.
.PP
Example:
.PP
.nf
.br
    TQBitArray a(3);
.br
    a.setBit( 0 );
.br
    a.clearBit( 1 );
.br
    a.setBit( 2 );     // a = [1 0 1]
.br
.br
    TQBitArray b(3);
.br
    b[0] = 1;
.br
    b[1] = 1;
.br
    b[2] = 0;          // b = [1 1 0]
.br
.br
    TQBitArray c;
.br
    c = ~a & b;        // c = [0 1 0]
.br
.fi
.PP
When a TQBitArray is constructed the bits are uninitialized. Use fill() to set all the bits to 0 or 1. The array can be resized with resize() and copied with copy(). Bits can be set with setBit() and cleared with clearBit(). Bits can be toggled with toggleBit(). A bit's value can be obtained with testBit() and with at().
.PP
TQBitArray supports the & (AND), | (OR), ^ (XOR) and ~ (NOT) operators.
.PP
See also Collection Classes, Implicitly and Explicitly Shared Classes, and Non-GUI Classes.
.SH MEMBER FUNCTION DOCUMENTATION
.SH "TQBitArray::TQBitArray ()"
Constructs an empty bit array.
.SH "TQBitArray::TQBitArray ( uint size )"
Constructs a bit array of \fIsize\fR bits. The bits are uninitialized.
.PP
See also fill().
.SH "TQBitArray::TQBitArray ( const TQBitArray & a )"
Constructs a shallow copy of \fIa\fR.
.SH "bool TQBitArray::at ( uint index ) const"
Returns the value (0 or 1) of the bit at position \fIindex\fR.
.PP
See also operator[]().
.SH "void TQBitArray::clearBit ( uint index )"
Clears the bit at position \fIindex\fR, i.e. sets it to 0.
.PP
See also setBit() and toggleBit().
.SH "TQBitArray TQBitArray::copy () const"
Returns a deep copy of the bit array.
.PP
See also detach().
.SH "void TQBitArray::detach ()\fC [virtual]\fR"
Detaches from shared bit array data and makes sure that this bit array is the only one referring to the data.
.PP
If multiple bit arrays share common data, this bit array dereferences the data and gets a copy of the data. Nothing happens if there is only a single reference.
.PP
See also copy().
.PP
Reimplemented from TQMemArray.
.SH "bool TQBitArray::fill ( bool v, int size = -1 )"
Fills the bit array with \fIv\fR (1's if \fIv\fR is TRUE, or 0's if \fIv\fR is FALSE).
.PP
fill() resizes the bit array to \fIsize\fR bits if \fIsize\fR is nonnegative.
.PP
Returns FALSE if a nonnegative \fIsize\fR was specified and the bit array could not be resized; otherwise returns TRUE.
.PP
See also resize().
.SH "TQBitArray & TQBitArray::operator&= ( const TQBitArray & a )"
Performs the AND operation between all bits in this bit array and \fIa\fR. Returns a reference to this bit array.
.PP
The result has the length of the longest of the two bit arrays, with any missing bits (i.e. if one array is shorter than the other), taken to be 0.
.PP
.nf
.br
    TQBitArray a( 3 ), b( 2 );
.br
    a[0] = 1;  a[1] = 0;  a[2] = 1;     // a = [1 0 1]
.br
    b[0] = 1;  b[1] = 0;                // b = [1 0]
.br
    a &= b;                             // a = [1 0 0]
.br
.fi
.PP
See also operator|=(), operator^=(), and operator~().
.SH "TQBitArray & TQBitArray::operator= ( const TQBitArray & a )"
Assigns a shallow copy of \fIa\fR to this bit array and returns a reference to this array.
.SH "TQBitVal TQBitArray::operator[] ( int index )"
Implements the [] operator for bit arrays.
.PP
The returned TQBitVal is a context object. It makes it possible to get and set a single bit value by its \fIindex\fR position.
.PP
Example:
.PP
.nf
.br
    TQBitArray a( 3 );
.br
    a[0] = 0;
.br
    a[1] = 1;
.br
    a[2] = a[0] ^ a[1];
.br
.fi
.PP
The functions testBit(), setBit() and clearBit() are faster.
.PP
See also at().
.SH "bool TQBitArray::operator[] ( int index ) const"
This is an overloaded member function, provided for convenience. It behaves essentially like the above function.
.PP
Implements the [] operator for constant bit arrays.
.SH "TQBitArray & TQBitArray::operator^= ( const TQBitArray & a )"
Performs the XOR operation between all bits in this bit array and \fIa\fR. Returns a reference to this bit array.
.PP
The result has the length of the longest of the two bit arrays, with any missing bits (i.e. if one array is shorter than the other), taken to be 0.
.PP
.nf
.br
    TQBitArray a( 3 ), b( 2 );
.br
    a[0] = 1;  a[1] = 0;  a[2] = 1;     // a = [1 0 1]
.br
    b[0] = 1;  b[1] = 0;                // b = [1 0]
.br
    a ^= b;                             // a = [0 0 1]
.br
.fi
.PP
See also operator&=(), operator|=(), and operator~().
.SH "TQBitArray & TQBitArray::operator|= ( const TQBitArray & a )"
Performs the OR operation between all bits in this bit array and \fIa\fR. Returns a reference to this bit array.
.PP
The result has the length of the longest of the two bit arrays, with any missing bits (i.e. if one array is shorter than the other), taken to be 0.
.PP
.nf
.br
    TQBitArray a( 3 ), b( 2 );
.br
    a[0] = 1;  a[1] = 0;  a[2] = 1;     // a = [1 0 1]
.br
    b[0] = 1;  b[1] = 0;                // b = [1 0]
.br
    a |= b;                             // a = [1 0 1]
.br
.fi
.PP
See also operator&=(), operator^=(), and operator~().
.SH "TQBitArray TQBitArray::operator~ () const"
Returns a bit array that contains the inverted bits of this bit array.
.PP
Example:
.PP
.nf
.br
    TQBitArray a( 3 ), b;
.br
    a[0] = 1;  a[1] = 0; a[2] = 1;      // a = [1 0 1]
.br
    b = ~a;                             // b = [0 1 0]
.br
.fi
.SH "bool TQBitArray::resize ( uint size )"
Resizes the bit array to \fIsize\fR bits and returns TRUE if the bit array could be resized; otherwise returns FALSE. The array becomes a null array if \fIsize\fR == 0.
.PP
If the array is expanded, the new bits are set to 0.
.PP
See also size().
.SH "void TQBitArray::setBit ( uint index, bool value )"
Sets the bit at position \fIindex\fR to \fIvalue\fR.
.PP
Equivalent to:
.PP
.nf
.br
    if ( value )
.br
        setBit( index );
.br
    else
.br
        clearBit( index );
.br
.fi
.PP
See also clearBit() and toggleBit().
.SH "void TQBitArray::setBit ( uint index )"
This is an overloaded member function, provided for convenience. It behaves essentially like the above function.
.PP
Sets the bit at position \fIindex\fR to 1.
.PP
See also clearBit() and toggleBit().
.SH "uint TQBitArray::size () const"
Returns the bit array's size (number of bits).
.PP
See also resize().
.SH "bool TQBitArray::testBit ( uint index ) const"
Returns TRUE if the bit at position \fIindex\fR is set, i.e. is 1; otherwise returns FALSE.
.PP
See also setBit() and clearBit().
.SH "bool TQBitArray::toggleBit ( uint index )"
Toggles the bit at position \fIindex\fR.
.PP
If the previous value was 0, the new value will be 1. If the previous value was 1, the new value will be 0.
.PP
See also setBit() and clearBit().
.SH RELATED FUNCTION DOCUMENTATION
.SH "TQBitArray operator& ( const TQBitArray & a1, const TQBitArray & a2 )"
Returns the AND result between the bit arrays \fIa1\fR and \fIa2\fR.
.PP
The result has the length of the longest of the two bit arrays, with any missing bits (i.e. if one array is shorter than the other), taken to be 0.
.PP
See also TQBitArray::operator&=().
.SH "TQDataStream & operator<< ( TQDataStream & s, const TQBitArray & a )"
Writes bit array \fIa\fR to stream \fIs\fR.
.PP
See also Format of the TQDataStream operators.
.SH "TQDataStream & operator>> ( TQDataStream & s, TQBitArray & a )"
Reads a bit array into \fIa\fR from stream \fIs\fR.
.PP
See also Format of the TQDataStream operators.
.SH "TQBitArray operator^ ( const TQBitArray & a1, const TQBitArray & a2 )"
Returns the XOR result between the bit arrays \fIa1\fR and \fIa2\fR.
.PP
The result has the length of the longest of the two bit arrays, with any missing bits (i.e. if one array is shorter than the other), taken to be 0.
.PP
See also TQBitArray::operator^().
.SH "TQBitArray operator| ( const TQBitArray & a1, const TQBitArray & a2 )"
Returns the OR result between the bit arrays \fIa1\fR and \fIa2\fR.
.PP
The result has the length of the longest of the two bit arrays, with any missing bits (i.e. if one array is shorter than the other), taken to be 0.
.PP
See also TQBitArray::operator|=().

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR http://doc.trolltech.com/tqbitarray.html
.BR http://www.trolltech.com/faq/tech.html
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright 1992-2007 Trolltech ASA, http://www.trolltech.com.  See the
license file included in the distribution for a complete license
statement.
.SH AUTHOR
Generated automatically from the source code.
.SH BUGS
If you find a bug in Qt, please report it as described in
.BR http://doc.trolltech.com/bughowto.html .
Good bug reports help us to help you. Thank you.
.P
The definitive TQt documentation is provided in HTML format; it is
located at $TQTDIR/doc/html and can be read using TQt Assistant or with
a web browser. This man page is provided as a convenience for those
users who prefer man pages, although this format is not officially
supported by Trolltech. 
.P
If you find errors in this manual page, please report them to
.BR qt-bugs@trolltech.com .
Please include the name of the manual page (tqbitarray.3qt) and the Qt
version (3.3.8).
