'\" t
.TH TQByteArray 3qt "2 February 2007" "Trolltech AS" \" -*- nroff -*-
.\" Copyright 1992-2007 Trolltech ASA.  All rights reserved.  See the
.\" license file included in the distribution for a complete license
.\" statement.
.\"
.ad l
.nh
.SH NAME
TQByteArray \- Array of bytes
.SH SYNOPSIS
All the functions in this class are reentrant when TQt is built with thread support.</p>
.PP
\fC#include <tqcstring.h>\fR
.PP
Inherits TQMemArray<char>.
.PP
Inherited by TQBitArray and TQCString.
.PP
.SS "Public Members"
.in +1c
.ti -1c
.BI "\fBTQByteArray\fR ()"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "\fBTQByteArray\fR ( int size )"
.br
.in -1c
.SH RELATED FUNCTION DOCUMENTATION
.in +1c
.ti -1c
.BI "TQByteArray \fBqCompress\fR ( const TQByteArray & data )"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "TQByteArray \fBqCompress\fR ( const uchar * data, int nbytes )"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "TQByteArray \fBqUncompress\fR ( const TQByteArray & data )"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "TQByteArray \fBqUncompress\fR ( const uchar * data, int nbytes )"
.br
.in -1c
.SH DESCRIPTION
The TQByteArray class provides an array of bytes.
.PP
The TQByteArray class provides an explicitly shared array of bytes. It is useful for manipulating memory areas with custom data. TQByteArray is implemented as a TQMemArray<char>. See the TQMemArray documentation for further information.
.PP
See also Collection Classes and Non-GUI Classes.
.SH MEMBER FUNCTION DOCUMENTATION
.SH "TQByteArray::TQByteArray ()"
Constructs an empty TQByteArray.
.SH "TQByteArray::TQByteArray ( int size )"
Constructs a TQByteArray of size \fIsize\fR.
.SH RELATED FUNCTION DOCUMENTATION
.SH "TQByteArray tqCompress ( const TQByteArray & data )"
Compresses the array \fIdata\fR and returns the compressed byte array using zlib.
.PP
See also tqUncompress().
.SH "TQByteArray tqCompress ( const uchar * data, int nbytes )"
This is an overloaded member function, provided for convenience. It behaves essentially like the above function.
.PP
Compresses the array \fIdata\fR which is \fInbytes\fR long and returns the compressed byte array.
.SH "TQByteArray tqUncompress ( const TQByteArray & data )"
Uncompresses the array \fIdata\fR and returns the uncompressed byte array.
.PP
Returns an empty TQByteArray if the input data was corrupt.
.PP
See also tqCompress().
.SH "TQByteArray tqUncompress ( const uchar * data, int nbytes )"
This is an overloaded member function, provided for convenience. It behaves essentially like the above function.
.PP
Uncompresses the array \fIdata\fR which is \fInbytes\fR long and returns
the uncompressed byte array.

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR http://doc.trolltech.com/tqbytearray.html
.BR http://www.trolltech.com/faq/tech.html
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright 1992-2007 Trolltech ASA, http://www.trolltech.com.  See the
license file included in the distribution for a complete license
statement.
.SH AUTHOR
Generated automatically from the source code.
.SH BUGS
If you find a bug in Qt, please report it as described in
.BR http://doc.trolltech.com/bughowto.html .
Good bug reports help us to help you. Thank you.
.P
The definitive TQt documentation is provided in HTML format; it is
located at $TQTDIR/doc/html and can be read using TQt Assistant or with
a web browser. This man page is provided as a convenience for those
users who prefer man pages, although this format is not officially
supported by Trolltech. 
.P
If you find errors in this manual page, please report them to
.BR qt-bugs@trolltech.com .
Please include the name of the manual page (tqbytearray.3qt) and the Qt
version (3.3.8).
