'\" t
.TH QCharRef 3qt "2 February 2007" "Trolltech AS" \" -*- nroff -*-
.\" Copyright 1992-2007 Trolltech ASA.  All rights reserved.  See the
.\" license file included in the distribution for a complete license
.\" statement.
.\"
.ad l
.nh
.SH NAME
QCharRef \- Helper class for TQString
.SH SYNOPSIS
All the functions in this class are reentrant when TQt is built with thread support.</p>
.PP
\fC#include <ntqstring.h>\fR
.PP
.SH DESCRIPTION
The QCharRef class is a helper class for TQString.
.PP
When you get an object of type QCharRef, if you can assign to it, the assignment will apply to the character in the string from which you got the reference. That is its whole purpose in life. The QCharRef becomes invalid once modifications are made to the string: if you want to keep the character, copy it into a TQChar.
.PP
Most of the TQChar member functions also exist in QCharRef. However, they are not explicitly documented here.
.PP
See also TQString::operator[](), TQString::at(), TQChar, and Text Related Classes.

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR http://doc.trolltech.com/qcharref.html
.BR http://www.trolltech.com/faq/tech.html
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright 1992-2007 Trolltech ASA, http://www.trolltech.com.  See the
license file included in the distribution for a complete license
statement.
.SH AUTHOR
Generated automatically from the source code.
.SH BUGS
If you find a bug in Qt, please report it as described in
.BR http://doc.trolltech.com/bughowto.html .
Good bug reports help us to help you. Thank you.
.P
The definitive TQt documentation is provided in HTML format; it is
located at $TQTDIR/doc/html and can be read using TQt Assistant or with
a web browser. This man page is provided as a convenience for those
users who prefer man pages, although this format is not officially
supported by Trolltech. 
.P
If you find errors in this manual page, please report them to
.BR qt-bugs@trolltech.com .
Please include the name of the manual page (tqcharref.3qt) and the Qt
version (3.3.8).
