'\" t
.TH TQClipboard 3qt "2 February 2007" "Trolltech AS" \" -*- nroff -*-
.\" Copyright 1992-2007 Trolltech ASA.  All rights reserved.  See the
.\" license file included in the distribution for a complete license
.\" statement.
.\"
.ad l
.nh
.SH NAME
TQClipboard \- Access to the window system clipboard
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fC#include <tqclipboard.h>\fR
.PP
Inherits TQObject.
.PP
.SS "Public Members"
.in +1c
.ti -1c
.BI "enum \fBMode\fR { Clipboard, Selection }"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "void \fBclear\fR ( Mode mode )"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "void \fBclear\fR ()"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "bool \fBsupportsSelection\fR () const"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "bool \fBownsSelection\fR () const"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "bool \fBownsClipboard\fR () const"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "void setSelectionMode ( bool enable )  \fI(obsolete)\fR"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "bool selectionModeEnabled () const  \fI(obsolete)\fR"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "TQString \fBtext\fR ( Mode mode ) const"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "TQString \fBtext\fR ( TQCString & subtype, Mode mode ) const"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "void \fBsetText\fR ( const TQString & text, Mode mode )"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "TQMimeSource * \fBdata\fR ( Mode mode ) const"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "void \fBsetData\fR ( TQMimeSource * src, Mode mode )"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "TQImage \fBimage\fR ( Mode mode ) const"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "TQPixmap \fBpixmap\fR ( Mode mode ) const"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "void \fBsetImage\fR ( const TQImage & image, Mode mode )"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "void \fBsetPixmap\fR ( const TQPixmap & pixmap, Mode mode )"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "TQString \fBtext\fR () const"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "TQString \fBtext\fR ( TQCString & subtype ) const"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "void \fBsetText\fR ( const TQString & text )"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "TQMimeSource * \fBdata\fR () const"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "void \fBsetData\fR ( TQMimeSource * src )"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "TQImage \fBimage\fR () const"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "TQPixmap \fBpixmap\fR () const"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "void \fBsetImage\fR ( const TQImage & image )"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "void \fBsetPixmap\fR ( const TQPixmap & pixmap )"
.br
.in -1c
.SS "Signals"
.in +1c
.ti -1c
.BI "void \fBselectionChanged\fR ()"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "void \fBdataChanged\fR ()"
.br
.in -1c
.SH DESCRIPTION
The TQClipboard class provides access to the window system clipboard.
.PP
The clipboard offers a simple mechanism to copy and paste data between applications.
.PP
TQClipboard supports the same data types that TQDragObject does, and uses similar mechanisms. For advanced clipboard usage read the drag-and-drop documentation.
.PP
There is a single TQClipboard object in an application, and you can access it using TQApplication::clipboard().
.PP
Example:
.PP
.nf
.br
    TQClipboard *cb = TQApplication::clipboard();
.br
.br
    // Copy text from the clipboard (paste)
.br
    TQString text = cb->text(TQClipboard::Clipboard);
.br
    if ( !text.isNull() )
.br
        tqDebug( "The clipboard contains: " + text );
.br
.br
    // Copy text into the clipboard
.br
    cb->setText( "This text can be pasted by other programs",
.br
                 TQClipboard::Clipboard );
.br
.fi
.PP
TQClipboard features some convenience functions to access common data types: setText() allows the exchange of Unicode text and setPixmap() and setImage() allows the exchange of TQPixmaps and TQImages between applications. The setData() function is the ultimate in flexibility: it allows you to add any TQMimeSource into the clipboard. There are corresponding getters for each of these, e.g. text(), image() and pixmap().
.PP
You can clear the clipboard by calling clear().
.SH "Platform Specific Information"
<h4> X11 </h4>
.IP
.TP
The X11 Window System has the concept of a separate selection and clipboard. When text is selected, it is immediately available as the global mouse selection. The global mouse selection may later be copied to the clipboard. By convention, the middle mouse button is used to paste the global mouse selection.
.IP
.TP
X11 also has the concept of ownership; if you change the selection within a window, X11 will only notify the owner and the previous owner of the change, i.e. it will not notify all applications that the selection or clipboard data changed.
.IP
.TP
Lastly, the X11 clipboard is event driven, i.e. the clipboard will not function properly if the event loop is not running. Similarly, it is recommended that the contents of the clipboard are stored or retrieved in direct response to user-input events, e.g. mouse button or key presses and releases. You should not store or retrieve the clipboard contents in response to timer or non-user-input events.
.IP
.PP
<h4> Windows </h4>
.IP
.TP
Microsoft Windows does not support the global mouse selection; it only supports the global clipboard, e.g. Windows only adds text to the clipboard when an explicit copy or cut is made.
.IP
.TP
Windows does not have the concept of ownership; the clipboard is a fully global resource so all applications are notified of changes.
.IP
.PP
See the multiclip example in the \fIQt Designer\fR examples directory for an example of a multiplatform clipboard application that also demonstrates selection handling.
.PP
See also Environment Classes and Input/Output and Networking.
.SS "Member Type Documentation"
.SH "TQClipboard::Mode"

.PP
This enum type is used to control which part of the system clipboard is used by TQClipboard::data(), TQClipboard::setData() and related functions.
.TP
\fCTQClipboard::Clipboard\fR - indicates that data should be stored and retrieved from the global clipboard.
.TP
\fCTQClipboard::Selection\fR - indicates that data should be stored and retrieved from the global mouse selection.
.PP
\fINote\fR: Support for Selection is provided only on systems with a global mouse selection (e.g. X11).
.PP
See also TQClipboard::supportsSelection().
.SH MEMBER FUNCTION DOCUMENTATION
.SH "void TQClipboard::clear ( Mode mode )"
Clear the clipboard contents.
.PP
The \fImode\fR argument is used to control which part of the system clipboard is used. If \fImode\fR is TQClipboard::Clipboard, this function clears the the global clipboard contents. If \fImode\fR is TQClipboard::Selection, this function clears the global mouse selection contents.
.PP
See also TQClipboard::Mode and supportsSelection().
.SH "void TQClipboard::clear ()"
This is an overloaded member function, provided for convenience. It behaves essentially like the above function.
.PP
This function uses the TQClipboard::clear() function which takes a TQClipboard::Mode argument. The value of the mode argument is determined by the return value of selectionModeEnabled(). If selectionModeEnabled() returns TRUE, the mode argument is TQClipboard::Selection, otherwise the mode argument is TQClipboard::Clipboard.
.SH "TQMimeSource * TQClipboard::data ( Mode mode ) const"
Returns a reference to a TQMimeSource representation of the current clipboard data.
.PP
The \fImode\fR argument is used to control which part of the system clipboard is used. If \fImode\fR is TQClipboard::Clipboard, the data is retrieved from the global clipboard. If \fImode\fR is TQClipboard::Selection, the data is retrieved from the global mouse selection.
.PP
See also setData().
.SH "TQMimeSource * TQClipboard::data () const"
This is an overloaded member function, provided for convenience. It behaves essentially like the above function.
.PP
This function uses the TQClipboard::data() function which takes a TQClipboard::Mode argument. The value of the mode argument is determined by the return value of selectionModeEnabled(). If selectionModeEnabled() returns TRUE, the mode argument is TQClipboard::Selection, otherwise the mode argument is TQClipboard::Clipboard.
.SH "void TQClipboard::dataChanged ()\fC [signal]\fR"
This signal is emitted when the clipboard data is changed.
.SH "TQImage TQClipboard::image ( Mode mode ) const"
Returns the clipboard image, or returns a null image if the clipboard does not contain an image or if it contains an image in an unsupported image format.
.PP
The \fImode\fR argument is used to control which part of the system clipboard is used. If \fImode\fR is TQClipboard::Clipboard, the image is retrieved from the global clipboard. If \fImode\fR is TQClipboard::Selection, the image is retrieved from the global mouse selection.
.PP
See also setImage(), pixmap(), data(), and TQImage::isNull().
.SH "TQImage TQClipboard::image () const"
This is an overloaded member function, provided for convenience. It behaves essentially like the above function.
.PP
This function uses the TQClipboard::image() function which takes a TQClipboard::Mode argument. The value of the mode argument is determined by the return value of selectionModeEnabled(). If selectionModeEnabled() returns TRUE, the mode argument is TQClipboard::Selection, otherwise the mode argument is TQClipboard::Clipboard.
.SH "bool TQClipboard::ownsClipboard () const"
Returns TRUE if this clipboard object owns the clipboard data; otherwise returns FALSE.
.SH "bool TQClipboard::ownsSelection () const"
Returns TRUE if this clipboard object owns the mouse selection data; otherwise returns FALSE.
.SH "TQPixmap TQClipboard::pixmap ( Mode mode ) const"
Returns the clipboard pixmap, or null if the clipboard does not contain a pixmap. Note that this can lose information. For example, if the image is 24-bit and the display is 8-bit, the result is converted to 8 bits, and if the image has an alpha channel, the result just has a mask.
.PP
The \fImode\fR argument is used to control which part of the system clipboard is used. If \fImode\fR is TQClipboard::Clipboard, the pixmap is retrieved from the global clipboard. If \fImode\fR is TQClipboard::Selection, the pixmap is retrieved from the global mouse selection.
.PP
See also setPixmap(), image(), data(), and TQPixmap::convertFromImage().
.SH "TQPixmap TQClipboard::pixmap () const"
This is an overloaded member function, provided for convenience. It behaves essentially like the above function.
.PP
This function uses the TQClipboard::pixmap() function which takes a TQClipboard::Mode argument. The value of the mode argument is determined by the return value of selectionModeEnabled(). If selectionModeEnabled() returns TRUE, the mode argument is TQClipboard::Selection, otherwise the mode argument is TQClipboard::Clipboard.
.SH "void TQClipboard::selectionChanged ()\fC [signal]\fR"
This signal is emitted when the selection is changed. This only applies to windowing systems that support selections, e.g. X11. Windows doesn't support selections.
.SH "bool TQClipboard::selectionModeEnabled () const"
\fBThis function is obsolete.\fR It is provided to keep old source working. We strongly advise against using it in new code.
.PP
Use the TQClipboard::data(), TQClipboard::setData() and related functions which take a TQClipboard::Mode argument.
.PP
Returns the selection mode.
.PP
See also setSelectionMode() and supportsSelection().
.SH "void TQClipboard::setData ( TQMimeSource * src, Mode mode )"
Sets the clipboard data to \fIsrc\fR. Ownership of the data is transferred to the clipboard. If you want to remove the data either call clear() or call setData() again with new data.
.PP
The \fImode\fR argument is used to control which part of the system clipboard is used. If \fImode\fR is TQClipboard::Clipboard, the data is retrieved from the global clipboard. If \fImode\fR is TQClipboard::Selection, the data is retrieved from the global mouse selection.
.PP
The TQDragObject subclasses are reasonable objects to put into the clipboard (but do not try to call TQDragObject::drag() on the same object). Any TQDragObject placed in the clipboard should have a parent of 0. Do not put TQDragMoveEvent or TQDropEvent subclasses in the clipboard, as they do not belong to the event handler which receives them.
.PP
The setText(), setImage() and setPixmap() functions are simpler wrappers for setting text, image and pixmap data respectively.
.PP
See also data().
.SH "void TQClipboard::setData ( TQMimeSource * src )"
This is an overloaded member function, provided for convenience. It behaves essentially like the above function.
.PP
This function uses the TQClipboard::setData() function which takes a TQClipboard::Mode argument. The value of the mode argument is determined by the return value of selectionModeEnabled(). If selectionModeEnabled() returns TRUE, the mode argument is TQClipboard::Selection, otherwise the mode argument is TQClipboard::Clipboard.
.SH "void TQClipboard::setImage ( const TQImage & image, Mode mode )"
Copies \fIimage\fR into the clipboard.
.PP
The \fImode\fR argument is used to control which part of the system clipboard is used. If \fImode\fR is TQClipboard::Clipboard, the image is stored in the global clipboard. If \fImode\fR is TQClipboard::Selection, the data is stored in the global mouse selection.
.PP
This is shorthand for:
.PP
.nf
.br
        setData( new TQImageDrag(image), mode )
.br
.fi
.PP
See also image(), setPixmap(), and setData().
.SH "void TQClipboard::setImage ( const TQImage & image )"
This is an overloaded member function, provided for convenience. It behaves essentially like the above function.
.PP
This function uses the TQClipboard::setImage() function which takes a TQClipboard::Mode argument. The value of the mode argument is determined by the return value of selectionModeEnabled(). If selectionModeEnabled() returns TRUE, the mode argument is TQClipboard::Selection, otherwise the mode argument is TQClipboard::Clipboard.
.SH "void TQClipboard::setPixmap ( const TQPixmap & pixmap, Mode mode )"
Copies \fIpixmap\fR into the clipboard. Note that this is slower than setImage() because it needs to convert the TQPixmap to a TQImage first.
.PP
The \fImode\fR argument is used to control which part of the system clipboard is used. If \fImode\fR is TQClipboard::Clipboard, the pixmap is stored in the global clipboard. If \fImode\fR is TQClipboard::Selection, the pixmap is stored in the global mouse selection.
.PP
See also pixmap(), setImage(), and setData().
.SH "void TQClipboard::setPixmap ( const TQPixmap & pixmap )"
This is an overloaded member function, provided for convenience. It behaves essentially like the above function.
.PP
This function uses the TQClipboard::setPixmap() function which takes a TQClipboard::Mode argument. The value of the mode argument is determined by the return value of selectionModeEnabled(). If selectionModeEnabled() returns TRUE, the mode argument is TQClipboard::Selection, otherwise the mode argument is TQClipboard::Clipboard.
.SH "void TQClipboard::setSelectionMode ( bool enable )"
\fBThis function is obsolete.\fR It is provided to keep old source working. We strongly advise against using it in new code.
.PP
Use the TQClipboard::data(), TQClipboard::setData() and related functions which take a TQClipboard::Mode argument.
.PP
Sets the clipboard selection mode. If \fIenable\fR is TRUE, then subsequent calls to TQClipboard::setData() and other functions which put data into the clipboard will put the data into the mouse selection, otherwise the data will be put into the clipboard.
.PP
See also supportsSelection() and selectionModeEnabled().
.SH "void TQClipboard::setText ( const TQString & text, Mode mode )"
Copies \fItext\fR into the clipboard as plain text.
.PP
The \fImode\fR argument is used to control which part of the system clipboard is used. If \fImode\fR is TQClipboard::Clipboard, the text is stored in the global clipboard. If \fImode\fR is TQClipboard::Selection, the text is stored in the global mouse selection.
.PP
See also text() and setData().
.PP
Example: regexptester/regexptester.cpp.
.SH "void TQClipboard::setText ( const TQString & text )"
This is an overloaded member function, provided for convenience. It behaves essentially like the above function.
.PP
This function uses the TQClipboard::setText() function which takes a TQClipboard::Mode argument. The value of the mode argument is determined by the return value of selectionModeEnabled(). If selectionModeEnabled() returns TRUE, the mode argument is TQClipboard::Selection, otherwise the mode argument is TQClipboard::Clipboard.
.SH "bool TQClipboard::supportsSelection () const"
Returns TRUE if the clipboard supports mouse selection; otherwise returns FALSE.
.PP
Example: regexptester/regexptester.cpp.
.SH "TQString TQClipboard::text ( Mode mode ) const"
Returns the clipboard text as plain text, or a null string if the clipboard does not contain any text.
.PP
The \fImode\fR argument is used to control which part of the system clipboard is used. If \fImode\fR is TQClipboard::Clipboard, the text is retrieved from the global clipboard. If \fImode\fR is TQClipboard::Selection, the text is retrieved from the global mouse selection.
.PP
See also setText(), data(), and TQString::operator!().
.SH "TQString TQClipboard::text ( TQCString & subtype, Mode mode ) const"
This is an overloaded member function, provided for convenience. It behaves essentially like the above function.
.PP
Returns the clipboard text in subtype \fIsubtype\fR, or a null string if the clipboard does not contain any text. If \fIsubtype\fR is null, any subtype is acceptable, and \fIsubtype\fR is set to the chosen subtype.
.PP
The \fImode\fR argument is used to control which part of the system clipboard is used. If \fImode\fR is TQClipboard::Clipboard, the text is retrieved from the global clipboard. If \fImode\fR is TQClipboard::Selection, the text is retrieved from the global mouse selection.
.PP
Common values for \fIsubtype\fR are "plain" and "html".
.PP
See also setText(), data(), and TQString::operator!().
.SH "TQString TQClipboard::text () const"
This is an overloaded member function, provided for convenience. It behaves essentially like the above function.
.PP
This function uses the TQClipboard::text() function which takes a TQClipboard::Mode argument. The value of the mode argument is determined by the return value of selectionModeEnabled(). If selectionModeEnabled() returns TRUE, the mode argument is TQClipboard::Selection, otherwise the mode argument is TQClipboard::Clipboard.
.SH "TQString TQClipboard::text ( TQCString & subtype ) const"
This is an overloaded member function, provided for convenience. It behaves essentially like the above function.
.PP
Returns the clipboard text in subtype \fIsubtype\fR, or a null string
if the clipboard does not contain any text. This function uses the
TQClipboard::text() function which takes a TQClipboard::Mode
argument.  The value of the mode argument is determined by the
return value of selectionModeEnabled(). If selectionModeEnabled()
returns TRUE, the mode argument is TQClipboard::Selection,
otherwise the mode argument is TQClipboard::Clipboard.

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR http://doc.trolltech.com/tqclipboard.html
.BR http://www.trolltech.com/faq/tech.html
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright 1992-2007 Trolltech ASA, http://www.trolltech.com.  See the
license file included in the distribution for a complete license
statement.
.SH AUTHOR
Generated automatically from the source code.
.SH BUGS
If you find a bug in Qt, please report it as described in
.BR http://doc.trolltech.com/bughowto.html .
Good bug reports help us to help you. Thank you.
.P
The definitive TQt documentation is provided in HTML format; it is
located at $TQTDIR/doc/html and can be read using TQt Assistant or with
a web browser. This man page is provided as a convenience for those
users who prefer man pages, although this format is not officially
supported by Trolltech. 
.P
If you find errors in this manual page, please report them to
.BR qt-bugs@trolltech.com .
Please include the name of the manual page (tqclipboard.3qt) and the Qt
version (3.3.8).
