'\" t
.TH TQDomAttr 3qt "2 February 2007" "Trolltech AS" \" -*- nroff -*-
.\" Copyright 1992-2007 Trolltech ASA.  All rights reserved.  See the
.\" license file included in the distribution for a complete license
.\" statement.
.\"
.ad l
.nh
.SH NAME
TQDomAttr \- Represents one attribute of a TQDomElement
.SH SYNOPSIS
All the functions in this class are reentrant when TQt is built with thread support.</p>
.PP
\fC#include <tqdom.h>\fR
.PP
Inherits TQDomNode.
.PP
.SS "Public Members"
.in +1c
.ti -1c
.BI "\fBTQDomAttr\fR ()"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "\fBTQDomAttr\fR ( const TQDomAttr & x )"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "TQDomAttr & \fBoperator=\fR ( const TQDomAttr & x )"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "\fB~TQDomAttr\fR ()"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "virtual TQString \fBname\fR () const"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "virtual bool \fBspecified\fR () const"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "virtual TQDomElement \fBownerElement\fR () const"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "virtual TQString \fBvalue\fR () const"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "virtual void \fBsetValue\fR ( const TQString & v )"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "virtual TQDomNode::NodeType \fBnodeType\fR () const"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "virtual bool \fBisAttr\fR () const"
.br
.in -1c
.SH DESCRIPTION
The TQDomAttr class represents one attribute of a TQDomElement.
.PP
For example, the following piece of XML produces an element with no children, but two attributes:
.PP
.nf
.br
    <link href="http://www.trolltech.com" color="red" />
.br
.fi
.PP
You can access the attributes of an element with code like this:
.PP
.nf
.br
    TQDomElement e = //...
.br
    //...
.br
    TQDomAttr a = e.attributeNode( "href" );
.br
    cout << a.value() << endl;                // prints "http://www.trolltech.com"
.br
    a.setValue( "http://doc.trolltech.com" ); // change the node's attribute
.br
    TQDomAttr a2 = e.attributeNode( "href" );
.br
    cout << a2.value() << endl;               // prints "http://doc.trolltech.com"
.br
.fi
.PP
This example also shows that changing an attribute received from an element changes the attribute of the element. If you do not want to change the value of the element's attribute you must use cloneNode() to get an independent copy of the attribute.
.PP
TQDomAttr can return the name() and value() of an attribute. An attribute's value is set with setValue(). If specified() returns TRUE the value was either set in the document or set with setValue(); otherwise the value hasn't been set. The node this attribute is attached to (if any) is returned by ownerElement().
.PP
For further information about the Document Object Model see http://www.w3.org/TR/REC-DOM-Level-1/ and http://www.w3.org/TR/DOM-Level-2-Core/. For a more general introduction of the DOM implementation see the TQDomDocument documentation.
.PP
See also XML.
.SH MEMBER FUNCTION DOCUMENTATION
.SH "TQDomAttr::TQDomAttr ()"
Constructs an empty attribute.
.SH "TQDomAttr::TQDomAttr ( const TQDomAttr & x )"
Constructs a copy of \fIx\fR.
.PP
The data of the copy is shared (shallow copy): modifying one node will also change the other. If you want to make a deep copy, use cloneNode().
.SH "TQDomAttr::~TQDomAttr ()"
Destroys the object and frees its resources.
.SH "bool TQDomAttr::isAttr () const\fC [virtual]\fR"
Returns TRUE.
.PP
Reimplemented from TQDomNode.
.SH "TQString TQDomAttr::name () const\fC [virtual]\fR"
Returns the attribute's name.
.SH "TQDomNode::NodeType TQDomAttr::nodeType () const\fC [virtual]\fR"
Returns AttributeNode.
.PP
Reimplemented from TQDomNode.
.SH "TQDomAttr & TQDomAttr::operator= ( const TQDomAttr & x )"
Assigns \fIx\fR to this DOM attribute.
.PP
The data of the copy is shared (shallow copy): modifying one node will also change the other. If you want to make a deep copy, use cloneNode().
.SH "TQDomElement TQDomAttr::ownerElement () const\fC [virtual]\fR"
Returns the element node this attribute is attached to or a null node if this attribute is not attached to any element.
.SH "void TQDomAttr::setValue ( const TQString & v )\fC [virtual]\fR"
Sets the attribute's value to \fIv\fR.
.PP
See also value().
.SH "bool TQDomAttr::specified () const\fC [virtual]\fR"
Returns TRUE if the attribute has either been expicitly specified in the XML document or was set by the user with setValue(). Returns FALSE if the value hasn't been specified or set.
.PP
See also setValue().
.SH "TQString TQDomAttr::value () const\fC [virtual]\fR"
Returns the value of the attribute or TQString::null if the attribute has not been specified.
.PP
See also specified() and setValue().

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR http://doc.trolltech.com/tqdomattr.html
.BR http://www.trolltech.com/faq/tech.html
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright 1992-2007 Trolltech ASA, http://www.trolltech.com.  See the
license file included in the distribution for a complete license
statement.
.SH AUTHOR
Generated automatically from the source code.
.SH BUGS
If you find a bug in Qt, please report it as described in
.BR http://doc.trolltech.com/bughowto.html .
Good bug reports help us to help you. Thank you.
.P
The definitive TQt documentation is provided in HTML format; it is
located at $TQTDIR/doc/html and can be read using TQt Assistant or with
a web browser. This man page is provided as a convenience for those
users who prefer man pages, although this format is not officially
supported by Trolltech. 
.P
If you find errors in this manual page, please report them to
.BR qt-bugs@trolltech.com .
Please include the name of the manual page (tqdomattr.3qt) and the Qt
version (3.3.8).
