'\" t
.TH TQDomCharacterData 3qt "2 February 2007" "Trolltech AS" \" -*- nroff -*-
.\" Copyright 1992-2007 Trolltech ASA.  All rights reserved.  See the
.\" license file included in the distribution for a complete license
.\" statement.
.\"
.ad l
.nh
.SH NAME
TQDomCharacterData \- Represents a generic string in the DOM
.SH SYNOPSIS
All the functions in this class are reentrant when TQt is built with thread support.</p>
.PP
\fC#include <tqdom.h>\fR
.PP
Inherits TQDomNode.
.PP
Inherited by TQDomText and TQDomComment.
.PP
.SS "Public Members"
.in +1c
.ti -1c
.BI "\fBTQDomCharacterData\fR ()"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "\fBTQDomCharacterData\fR ( const TQDomCharacterData & x )"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "TQDomCharacterData & \fBoperator=\fR ( const TQDomCharacterData & x )"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "\fB~TQDomCharacterData\fR ()"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "virtual TQString \fBsubstringData\fR ( unsigned long offset, unsigned long count )"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "virtual void \fBappendData\fR ( const TQString & arg )"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "virtual void \fBinsertData\fR ( unsigned long offset, const TQString & arg )"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "virtual void \fBdeleteData\fR ( unsigned long offset, unsigned long count )"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "virtual void \fBreplaceData\fR ( unsigned long offset, unsigned long count, const TQString & arg )"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "virtual uint \fBlength\fR () const"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "virtual TQString \fBdata\fR () const"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "virtual void \fBsetData\fR ( const TQString & v )"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "virtual TQDomNode::NodeType \fBnodeType\fR () const"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "virtual bool \fBisCharacterData\fR () const"
.br
.in -1c
.SH DESCRIPTION
The TQDomCharacterData class represents a generic string in the DOM.
.PP
Character data as used in XML specifies a generic data string. More specialized versions of this class are TQDomText, TQDomComment and TQDomCDATASection.
.PP
The data string is set with setData() and retrieved with data(). You can retrieve a portion of the data string using substringData(). Extra data can be appended with appendData(), or inserted with insertData(). Portions of the data string can be deleted with deleteData() or replaced with replaceData(). The length of the data string is returned by length().
.PP
The node type of the node containing this character data is returned by nodeType().
.PP
See also TQDomText, TQDomComment, TQDomCDATASection, and XML.
.SH MEMBER FUNCTION DOCUMENTATION
.SH "TQDomCharacterData::TQDomCharacterData ()"
Constructs an empty character data object.
.SH "TQDomCharacterData::TQDomCharacterData ( const TQDomCharacterData & x )"
Constructs a copy of \fIx\fR.
.PP
The data of the copy is shared (shallow copy): modifying one node will also change the other. If you want to make a deep copy, use cloneNode().
.SH "TQDomCharacterData::~TQDomCharacterData ()"
Destroys the object and frees its resources.
.SH "void TQDomCharacterData::appendData ( const TQString & arg )\fC [virtual]\fR"
Appends the string \fIarg\fR to the stored string.
.SH "TQString TQDomCharacterData::data () const\fC [virtual]\fR"
Returns the string stored in this object.
.PP
If the node is a null node, it will return TQString::null.
.SH "void TQDomCharacterData::deleteData ( unsigned long offset, unsigned long count )\fC [virtual]\fR"
Deletes a substring of length \fIcount\fR from position \fIoffset\fR.
.SH "void TQDomCharacterData::insertData ( unsigned long offset, const TQString & arg )\fC [virtual]\fR"
Inserts the string \fIarg\fR into the stored string at position \fIoffset\fR.
.SH "bool TQDomCharacterData::isCharacterData () const\fC [virtual]\fR"
Returns TRUE.
.PP
Reimplemented from TQDomNode.
.SH "uint TQDomCharacterData::length () const\fC [virtual]\fR"
Returns the length of the stored string.
.SH "TQDomNode::NodeType TQDomCharacterData::nodeType () const\fC [virtual]\fR"
Returns the type of node this object refers to (i.e. TextNode, CDATASectionNode, CommentNode or CharacterDataNode). For a null node CharacterDataNode is returned.
.PP
Reimplemented from TQDomNode.
.PP
Reimplemented in TQDomText and TQDomComment.
.SH "TQDomCharacterData & TQDomCharacterData::operator= ( const TQDomCharacterData & x )"
Assigns \fIx\fR to this character data.
.PP
The data of the copy is shared (shallow copy): modifying one node will also change the other. If you want to make a deep copy, use cloneNode().
.SH "void TQDomCharacterData::replaceData ( unsigned long offset, unsigned long count, const TQString & arg )\fC [virtual]\fR"
Replaces the substring of length \fIcount\fR starting at position \fIoffset\fR with the string \fIarg\fR.
.SH "void TQDomCharacterData::setData ( const TQString & v )\fC [virtual]\fR"
Sets this object's string to \fIv\fR.
.SH "TQString TQDomCharacterData::substringData ( unsigned long offset, unsigned long count )\fC [virtual]\fR"
Returns the substring of length \fIcount\fR from position \fIoffset\fR.

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR http://doc.trolltech.com/tqdomcharacterdata.html
.BR http://www.trolltech.com/faq/tech.html
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright 1992-2007 Trolltech ASA, http://www.trolltech.com.  See the
license file included in the distribution for a complete license
statement.
.SH AUTHOR
Generated automatically from the source code.
.SH BUGS
If you find a bug in Qt, please report it as described in
.BR http://doc.trolltech.com/bughowto.html .
Good bug reports help us to help you. Thank you.
.P
The definitive TQt documentation is provided in HTML format; it is
located at $TQTDIR/doc/html and can be read using TQt Assistant or with
a web browser. This man page is provided as a convenience for those
users who prefer man pages, although this format is not officially
supported by Trolltech. 
.P
If you find errors in this manual page, please report them to
.BR qt-bugs@trolltech.com .
Please include the name of the manual page (tqdomcharacterdata.3qt) and the Qt
version (3.3.8).
