'\" t
.TH TQDomText 3qt "2 February 2007" "Trolltech AS" \" -*- nroff -*-
.\" Copyright 1992-2007 Trolltech ASA.  All rights reserved.  See the
.\" license file included in the distribution for a complete license
.\" statement.
.\"
.ad l
.nh
.SH NAME
TQDomText \- Represents text data in the parsed XML document
.SH SYNOPSIS
All the functions in this class are reentrant when TQt is built with thread support.</p>
.PP
\fC#include <tqdom.h>\fR
.PP
Inherits TQDomCharacterData.
.PP
Inherited by TQDomCDATASection.
.PP
.SS "Public Members"
.in +1c
.ti -1c
.BI "\fBTQDomText\fR ()"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "\fBTQDomText\fR ( const TQDomText & x )"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "TQDomText & \fBoperator=\fR ( const TQDomText & x )"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "\fB~TQDomText\fR ()"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "TQDomText \fBsplitText\fR ( int offset )"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "virtual TQDomNode::NodeType \fBnodeType\fR () const"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "virtual bool \fBisText\fR () const"
.br
.in -1c
.SH DESCRIPTION
The TQDomText class represents text data in the parsed XML document.
.PP
You can split the text in a TQDomText object over two TQDomText objecs with splitText().
.PP
For further information about the Document Object Model see http://www.w3.org/TR/REC-DOM-Level-1/ and http://www.w3.org/TR/DOM-Level-2-Core/. For a more general introduction of the DOM implementation see the TQDomDocument documentation.
.PP
See also XML.
.SH MEMBER FUNCTION DOCUMENTATION
.SH "TQDomText::TQDomText ()"
Constructs an empty TQDomText object.
.PP
To construct a TQDomText with content, use TQDomDocument::createTextNode().
.SH "TQDomText::TQDomText ( const TQDomText & x )"
Constructs a copy of \fIx\fR.
.PP
The data of the copy is shared (shallow copy): modifying one node will also change the other. If you want to make a deep copy, use cloneNode().
.SH "TQDomText::~TQDomText ()"
Destroys the object and frees its resources.
.SH "bool TQDomText::isText () const\fC [virtual]\fR"
Returns TRUE.
.PP
Reimplemented from TQDomNode.
.SH "TQDomNode::NodeType TQDomText::nodeType () const\fC [virtual]\fR"
Returns TextNode.
.PP
Reimplemented from TQDomCharacterData.
.PP
Reimplemented in TQDomCDATASection.
.SH "TQDomText & TQDomText::operator= ( const TQDomText & x )"
Assigns \fIx\fR to this DOM text.
.PP
The data of the copy is shared (shallow copy): modifying one node will also change the other. If you want to make a deep copy, use cloneNode().
.SH "TQDomText TQDomText::splitText ( int offset )"
Splits this DOM text object into two TQDomText objects. This object keeps its first \fIoffset\fR characters and the second (newly created) object is inserted into the document tree after this object with the remaining characters.
.PP
The function returns the newly created object.
.PP
See also TQDomNode::normalize().

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR http://doc.trolltech.com/tqdomtext.html
.BR http://www.trolltech.com/faq/tech.html
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright 1992-2007 Trolltech ASA, http://www.trolltech.com.  See the
license file included in the distribution for a complete license
statement.
.SH AUTHOR
Generated automatically from the source code.
.SH BUGS
If you find a bug in Qt, please report it as described in
.BR http://doc.trolltech.com/bughowto.html .
Good bug reports help us to help you. Thank you.
.P
The definitive TQt documentation is provided in HTML format; it is
located at $TQTDIR/doc/html and can be read using TQt Assistant or with
a web browser. This man page is provided as a convenience for those
users who prefer man pages, although this format is not officially
supported by Trolltech. 
.P
If you find errors in this manual page, please report them to
.BR qt-bugs@trolltech.com .
Please include the name of the manual page (tqdomtext.3qt) and the Qt
version (3.3.8).
