'\" t
.TH TQIconFactory 3qt "2 February 2007" "Trolltech AS" \" -*- nroff -*-
.\" Copyright 1992-2007 Trolltech ASA.  All rights reserved.  See the
.\" license file included in the distribution for a complete license
.\" statement.
.\"
.ad l
.nh
.SH NAME
TQIconFactory \- Used to create pixmaps for a TQIconSet
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fC#include <tqiconset.h>\fR
.PP
.SS "Public Members"
.in +1c
.ti -1c
.BI "\fBTQIconFactory\fR ()"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "virtual \fB~TQIconFactory\fR ()"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "virtual TQPixmap * \fBcreatePixmap\fR ( const TQIconSet & iconSet, TQIconSet::Size size, TQIconSet::Mode mode, TQIconSet::State state )"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "void \fBsetAutoDelete\fR ( bool autoDelete )"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "bool \fBautoDelete\fR () const"
.br
.in -1c
.SS "Static Public Members"
.in +1c
.ti -1c
.BI "TQIconFactory * \fBdefaultFactory\fR ()"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "void \fBinstallDefaultFactory\fR ( TQIconFactory * factory )"
.br
.in -1c
.SH DESCRIPTION
The TQIconFactory class is used to create pixmaps for a TQIconSet.
.PP
By reimplementing createPixmap(), you can override TQIconSet's default algorithm for computing pixmaps not supplied by the user.
.PP
Call setAutoDelete(TRUE) if you want the factory to automatically delete itself when it is no longer needed by TQIconSet.
.PP
See also TQIconSet and Advanced Widgets.
.SH MEMBER FUNCTION DOCUMENTATION
.SH "TQIconFactory::TQIconFactory ()"
Constructs an icon factory.
.SH "TQIconFactory::~TQIconFactory ()\fC [virtual]\fR"
Destroys the object and frees any allocated resources.
.SH "bool TQIconFactory::autoDelete () const"
Returns TRUE if auto-deletion is enabled; otherwise returns FALSE.
.PP
See also setAutoDelete().
.SH "TQPixmap * TQIconFactory::createPixmap ( const TQIconSet & iconSet, TQIconSet::Size size, TQIconSet::Mode mode, TQIconSet::State state )\fC [virtual]\fR"
Ceates a pixmap for \fIiconSet\fR with a certain \fIsize\fR, \fImode\fR, and \fIstate\fR. Returns 0 if the default TQIconSet algorithm should be used to create a pixmap that wasn't supplied by the user.
.PP
It is the caller's responsibility to delete the returned pixmap.
.PP
The default implementation always returns 0.
.SH "TQIconFactory * TQIconFactory::defaultFactory ()\fC [static]\fR"
Returns the default icon factory.
.PP
See also installDefaultFactory().
.SH "void TQIconFactory::installDefaultFactory ( TQIconFactory * factory )\fC [static]\fR"
Replaces the default icon factory with \fIfactory\fR.
.SH "void TQIconFactory::setAutoDelete ( bool autoDelete )"
If \fIautoDelete\fR is TRUE, sets the icon factory to automatically delete itself when it is no longer referenced by any TQIconSet and isn't the default factory. If \fIautoDelete\fR is FALSE (the default) auto-deletion is disabled.
.PP
See also autoDelete() and defaultFactory().

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR http://doc.trolltech.com/tqiconfactory.html
.BR http://www.trolltech.com/faq/tech.html
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright 1992-2007 Trolltech ASA, http://www.trolltech.com.  See the
license file included in the distribution for a complete license
statement.
.SH AUTHOR
Generated automatically from the source code.
.SH BUGS
If you find a bug in Qt, please report it as described in
.BR http://doc.trolltech.com/bughowto.html .
Good bug reports help us to help you. Thank you.
.P
The definitive TQt documentation is provided in HTML format; it is
located at $TQTDIR/doc/html and can be read using TQt Assistant or with
a web browser. This man page is provided as a convenience for those
users who prefer man pages, although this format is not officially
supported by Trolltech. 
.P
If you find errors in this manual page, please report them to
.BR qt-bugs@trolltech.com .
Please include the name of the manual page (tqiconfactory.3qt) and the Qt
version (3.3.8).
