'\" t
.TH TQIconDragItem 3qt "2 February 2007" "Trolltech AS" \" -*- nroff -*-
.\" Copyright 1992-2007 Trolltech ASA.  All rights reserved.  See the
.\" license file included in the distribution for a complete license
.\" statement.
.\"
.ad l
.nh
.SH NAME
TQIconDragItem \- Encapsulates a drag item
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fC#include <tqiconview.h>\fR
.PP
.SS "Public Members"
.in +1c
.ti -1c
.BI "\fBTQIconDragItem\fR ()"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "virtual \fB~TQIconDragItem\fR ()"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "virtual TQByteArray \fBdata\fR () const"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "virtual void \fBsetData\fR ( const TQByteArray & d )"
.br
.in -1c
.SH DESCRIPTION
The TQIconDragItem class encapsulates a drag item.
.PP
The TQIconDrag class uses a list of TQIconDragItems to support drag and drop operations.
.PP
In practice a TQIconDragItem object (or an object of a class derived from TQIconDragItem) is created for each icon view item which is dragged. Each of these TQIconDragItems is stored in a TQIconDrag object.
.PP
See TQIconView::dragObject() for more information.
.PP
See the fileiconview/tqfileiconview.cpp and iconview/simple_dd/main.cpp examples.
.PP
See also Drag And Drop Classes.
.SH MEMBER FUNCTION DOCUMENTATION
.SH "TQIconDragItem::TQIconDragItem ()"
Constructs a TQIconDragItem with no data.
.SH "TQIconDragItem::~TQIconDragItem ()\fC [virtual]\fR"
Destructor.
.SH "TQByteArray TQIconDragItem::data () const\fC [virtual]\fR"
Returns the data contained in the TQIconDragItem.
.SH "void TQIconDragItem::setData ( const TQByteArray & d )\fC [virtual]\fR"
Sets the data for the TQIconDragItem to the data stored in the TQByteArray \fId\fR.
.PP
Example: fileiconview/tqfileiconview.cpp.

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR http://doc.trolltech.com/tqicondragitem.html
.BR http://www.trolltech.com/faq/tech.html
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright 1992-2007 Trolltech ASA, http://www.trolltech.com.  See the
license file included in the distribution for a complete license
statement.
.SH AUTHOR
Generated automatically from the source code.
.SH BUGS
If you find a bug in Qt, please report it as described in
.BR http://doc.trolltech.com/bughowto.html .
Good bug reports help us to help you. Thank you.
.P
The definitive TQt documentation is provided in HTML format; it is
located at $TQTDIR/doc/html and can be read using TQt Assistant or with
a web browser. This man page is provided as a convenience for those
users who prefer man pages, although this format is not officially
supported by Trolltech. 
.P
If you find errors in this manual page, please report them to
.BR qt-bugs@trolltech.com .
Please include the name of the manual page (tqicondragitem.3qt) and the Qt
version (3.3.8).
