'\" t
.TH TQKeySequence 3qt "2 February 2007" "Trolltech AS" \" -*- nroff -*-
.\" Copyright 1992-2007 Trolltech ASA.  All rights reserved.  See the
.\" license file included in the distribution for a complete license
.\" statement.
.\"
.ad l
.nh
.SH NAME
TQKeySequence \- Encapsulates a key sequence as used by accelerators
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fC#include <tqkeysequence.h>\fR
.PP
Inherits Qt.
.PP
.SS "Public Members"
.in +1c
.ti -1c
.BI "\fBTQKeySequence\fR ()"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "\fBTQKeySequence\fR ( const TQString & key )"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "\fBTQKeySequence\fR ( int key )"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "\fBTQKeySequence\fR ( int k1, int k2, int k3 = 0, int k4 = 0 )"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "\fBTQKeySequence\fR ( const TQKeySequence & keysequence )"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "\fB~TQKeySequence\fR ()"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "uint \fBcount\fR () const"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "bool \fBisEmpty\fR () const"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "TQt::SequenceMatch \fBmatches\fR ( const TQKeySequence & seq ) const"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "\fBoperator TQString\fR () const"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "operator int () const  \fI(obsolete)\fR"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "int \fBoperator[]\fR ( uint index ) const"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "TQKeySequence & \fBoperator=\fR ( const TQKeySequence & keysequence )"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "bool \fBoperator==\fR ( const TQKeySequence & keysequence ) const"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "bool \fBoperator!=\fR ( const TQKeySequence & keysequence ) const"
.br
.in -1c
.SH RELATED FUNCTION DOCUMENTATION
.in +1c
.ti -1c
.BI "TQDataStream & \fBoperator<<\fR ( TQDataStream & s, const TQKeySequence & keysequence )"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "TQDataStream & \fBoperator>>\fR ( TQDataStream & s, TQKeySequence & keysequence )"
.br
.in -1c
.SH DESCRIPTION
The TQKeySequence class encapsulates a key sequence as used by accelerators.
.PP
A key sequence consists of up to four keyboard codes, each optionally combined with modifiers, e.g. SHIFT, CTRL, ALT, META, or UNICODE_ACCEL. For example, \fCCTRL + Key_P\fR might be a sequence used as a shortcut for printing a document. The key codes are listed in tqnamespace.h. As an alternative, use UNICODE_ACCEL with the unicode code point of the character. For example, \fCUNICODE_ACCEL + 'A'\fR gives the same key sequence as Key_A.
.PP
Key sequences can be constructed either from an integer key code, or from a human readable translatable string such as" Ctrl+X,Alt+Space". A key sequence can be cast to a TQString to obtain a human readable translated version of the sequence. Translations are done in the "TQAccel" context.
.PP
See also TQAccel and Miscellaneous Classes.
.SH MEMBER FUNCTION DOCUMENTATION
.SH "TQKeySequence::TQKeySequence ()"
Constructs an empty key sequence.
.SH "TQKeySequence::TQKeySequence ( const TQString & key )"
Creates a key sequence from the string \fIkey\fR. For example" Ctrl+O" gives CTRL+UNICODE_ACCEL+'O'. The strings "Ctrl"," Shift", "Alt" and "Meta" are recognized, as well as their translated equivalents in the "TQAccel" context (using TQObject::tr()).
.PP
Multiple key codes (up to four) may be entered by separating them with commas, e.g. "Alt+X,Ctrl+S,Q".
.PP
This contructor is typically used with tr(), so that accelerator keys can be replaced in translations:
.PP
.nf
.br
        TQPopupMenu *file = new TQPopupMenu( this );
.br
        file->insertItem( tr("&Open..."), this, TQ_SLOT(open()),
.br
                          TQKeySequence( tr("Ctrl+O", "File|Open") ) );
.br
.fi
.PP
Note the \fC"File|Open"\fR translator comment. It is by no means necessary, but it provides some context for the human translator.
.SH "TQKeySequence::TQKeySequence ( int key )"
Constructs a key sequence that has a single \fIkey\fR.
.PP
The key codes are listed in tqnamespace.h and can be combined with modifiers, e.g. with SHIFT, CTRL, ALT, META or UNICODE_ACCEL.
.SH "TQKeySequence::TQKeySequence ( int k1, int k2, int k3 = 0, int k4 = 0 )"
Constructs a key sequence with up to 4 keys \fIk1\fR, \fIk2\fR, \fIk3\fR and \fIk4\fR.
.PP
The key codes are listed in tqnamespace.h and can be combined with modifiers, e.g. with SHIFT, CTRL, ALT, META or UNICODE_ACCEL.
.SH "TQKeySequence::TQKeySequence ( const TQKeySequence & keysequence )"
Copy constructor. Makes a copy of \fIkeysequence\fR.
.SH "TQKeySequence::~TQKeySequence ()"
Destroys the key sequence.
.SH "uint TQKeySequence::count () const"
Returns the number of keys in the key sequence. The maximum is 4.
.SH "bool TQKeySequence::isEmpty () const"
Returns TRUE if the key sequence is empty; otherwise returns FALSE.
.SH "TQt::SequenceMatch TQKeySequence::matches ( const TQKeySequence & seq ) const"
Matches the sequence with \fIseq\fR. Returns TQt::Identical if successful, TQt::PartialMatch for matching but incomplete \fIseq\fR, and TQt::NoMatch if the sequences have nothing in common. Returns TQt::NoMatch if \fIseq\fR is shorter.
.SH "TQKeySequence::operator TQString () const"
Creates an accelerator string for the key sequence. For instance CTRL+Key_O gives "Ctrl+O". If the key sequence has multiple key codes they are returned comma-separated, e.g." Alt+X, Ctrl+Y, Z". The strings, "Ctrl", "Shift", etc. are translated (using TQObject::tr()) in the "TQAccel" scope. If the key sequence has no keys, TQString::null is returned.
.PP
On Mac OS X, the string returned resembles the sequence that is shown in the menubar.
.SH "TQKeySequence::operator int () const"
\fBThis function is obsolete.\fR It is provided to keep old source working. We strongly advise against using it in new code.
.PP
For backward compatibility: returns the first keycode as integer. If the key sequence is empty, 0 is returned.
.SH "bool TQKeySequence::operator!= ( const TQKeySequence & keysequence ) const"
Returns TRUE if \fIkeysequence\fR is not equal to this key sequence; otherwise returns FALSE.
.SH "TQKeySequence & TQKeySequence::operator= ( const TQKeySequence & keysequence )"
Assignment operator. Assigns \fIkeysequence\fR to this object.
.SH "bool TQKeySequence::operator== ( const TQKeySequence & keysequence ) const"
Returns TRUE if \fIkeysequence\fR is equal to this key sequence; otherwise returns FALSE.
.SH "int TQKeySequence::operator[] ( uint index ) const"
Returns a reference to the element at position \fIindex\fR in the key sequence. This can only be used to read an element.
.SH RELATED FUNCTION DOCUMENTATION
.SH "TQDataStream & operator<< ( TQDataStream & s, const TQKeySequence & keysequence )"
Writes the key sequence \fIkeysequence\fR to the stream \fIs\fR.
.PP
See also Format of the TQDataStream operators.
.SH "TQDataStream & operator>> ( TQDataStream & s, TQKeySequence & keysequence )"
Reads a key sequence from the stream \fIs\fR into the key sequence \fIkeysequence\fR.
.PP
See also Format of the TQDataStream operators.

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR http://doc.trolltech.com/tqkeysequence.html
.BR http://www.trolltech.com/faq/tech.html
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright 1992-2007 Trolltech ASA, http://www.trolltech.com.  See the
license file included in the distribution for a complete license
statement.
.SH AUTHOR
Generated automatically from the source code.
.SH BUGS
If you find a bug in Qt, please report it as described in
.BR http://doc.trolltech.com/bughowto.html .
Good bug reports help us to help you. Thank you.
.P
The definitive TQt documentation is provided in HTML format; it is
located at $TQTDIR/doc/html and can be read using TQt Assistant or with
a web browser. This man page is provided as a convenience for those
users who prefer man pages, although this format is not officially
supported by Trolltech. 
.P
If you find errors in this manual page, please report them to
.BR qt-bugs@trolltech.com .
Please include the name of the manual page (tqkeysequence.3qt) and the Qt
version (3.3.8).
