'\" t
.TH TQLayout 3qt "2 February 2007" "Trolltech AS" \" -*- nroff -*-
.\" Copyright 1992-2007 Trolltech ASA.  All rights reserved.  See the
.\" license file included in the distribution for a complete license
.\" statement.
.\"
.ad l
.nh
.SH NAME
TQLayout \- The base class of geometry managers
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fC#include <tqlayout.h>\fR
.PP
Inherits TQObject and TQLayoutItem.
.PP
Inherited by TQGridLayout and TQBoxLayout.
.PP
.SS "Public Members"
.in +1c
.ti -1c
.BI "enum \fBResizeMode\fR { FreeResize, Minimum, Fixed, Auto }"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "\fBTQLayout\fR ( TQWidget * parent, int margin = 0, int spacing = -1, const char * name = 0 )"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "\fBTQLayout\fR ( TQLayout * parentLayout, int spacing = -1, const char * name = 0 )"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "\fBTQLayout\fR ( int spacing = -1, const char * name = 0 )"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "int \fBmargin\fR () const"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "int \fBspacing\fR () const"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "virtual void \fBsetMargin\fR ( int )"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "virtual void \fBsetSpacing\fR ( int )"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "void \fBsetResizeMode\fR ( ResizeMode )"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "ResizeMode \fBresizeMode\fR () const"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "virtual void \fBsetMenuBar\fR ( TQMenuBar * w )"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "TQMenuBar * \fBmenuBar\fR () const"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "TQWidget * \fBmainWidget\fR ()"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "bool \fBisTopLevel\fR () const"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "virtual void \fBsetAutoAdd\fR ( bool b )"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "bool \fBautoAdd\fR () const"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "virtual void \fBinvalidate\fR ()"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "bool \fBactivate\fR ()"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "void \fBadd\fR ( TQWidget * w )"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "virtual void \fBaddItem\fR ( TQLayoutItem * item ) = 0"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "void \fBremove\fR ( TQWidget * widget )"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "void \fBremoveItem\fR ( TQLayoutItem * item )"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "virtual TQSizePolicy::ExpandData \fBexpanding\fR () const"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "virtual TQSize \fBminimumSize\fR () const"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "virtual TQSize \fBmaximumSize\fR () const"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "virtual void \fBsetGeometry\fR ( const TQRect & r ) = 0"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "virtual TQLayoutIterator \fBiterator\fR () = 0"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "virtual bool \fBisEmpty\fR () const"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "bool \fBsupportsMargin\fR () const"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "void \fBsetEnabled\fR ( bool enable )"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "bool \fBisEnabled\fR () const"
.br
.in -1c
.SS "Properties"
.in +1c
.ti -1c
.BI "int \fBmargin\fR - the width of the outside border of the layout"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "ResizeMode \fBresizeMode\fR - the resize mode of the layout"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "int \fBspacing\fR - the spacing between widgets inside the layout"
.br
.in -1c
.SS "Protected Members"
.in +1c
.ti -1c
.BI "void \fBaddChildLayout\fR ( TQLayout * l )"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "void \fBdeleteAllItems\fR ()"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "void \fBsetSupportsMargin\fR ( bool b )"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "TQRect \fBalignmentRect\fR ( const TQRect & r ) const"
.br
.in -1c
.SH DESCRIPTION
The TQLayout class is the base class of geometry managers.
.PP
This is an abstract base class inherited by the concrete classes, TQBoxLayout and TQGridLayout.
.PP
For users of TQLayout subclasses or of TQMainWindow there is seldom any need to use the basic functions provided by TQLayout, such as setResizeMode() or setMenuBar(). See the layout overview page for more information.
.PP
To make your own layout manager, subclass TQGLayoutIterator and implement the functions addItem(), sizeHint(), setGeometry(), and iterator(). You should also implement minimumSize() to ensure your layout isn't resized to zero size if there is too little space. To support children whose heights depend on their widths, implement hasHeightForWidth() and heightForWidth(). See the custom layout page for an in-depth description.
.PP
Geometry management stops when the layout manager is deleted.
.PP
See also Widget Appearance and Style and Layout Management.
.SS "Member Type Documentation"
.SH "TQLayout::ResizeMode"
The possible values are:
.TP
\fCTQLayout::Auto\fR - If the main widget is a top-level widget with no height-for-width (hasHeightForWidth()), this is the same as \fCMinimium\fR; otherwise, this is the same as FreeResize.
.TP
\fCTQLayout::Fixed\fR - The main widget's size is set to sizeHint(); it cannot be resized at all.
.TP
\fCTQLayout::Minimum\fR - The main widget's minimum size is set to minimumSize(); it cannot be smaller.
.TP
\fCTQLayout::FreeResize\fR - The widget is not constrained.
.SH MEMBER FUNCTION DOCUMENTATION
.SH "TQLayout::TQLayout ( TQWidget * parent, int margin = 0, int spacing = -1, const char * name = 0 )"
Constructs a new top-level TQLayout called \fIname\fR, with main widget \fIparent\fR. \fIparent\fR may not be 0.
.PP
The \fImargin\fR is the number of pixels between the edge of the widget and the managed children. The \fIspacing\fR sets the value of spacing(), which gives the spacing between the managed widgets. If \fIspacing\fR is -1 (the default), spacing is set to the value of \fImargin\fR.
.PP
There can be only one top-level layout for a widget. It is returned by TQWidget::layout()
.SH "TQLayout::TQLayout ( TQLayout * parentLayout, int spacing = -1, const char * name = 0 )"
Constructs a new child TQLayout called \fIname\fR, and places it inside \fIparentLayout\fR by using the default placement defined by addItem().
.PP
If \fIspacing\fR is -1, this TQLayout inherits \fIparentLayout\fR's spacing(), otherwise the value of \fIspacing\fR is used.
.SH "TQLayout::TQLayout ( int spacing = -1, const char * name = 0 )"
Constructs a new child TQLayout called \fIname\fR. If \fIspacing\fR is -1, this TQLayout inherits its parent's spacing(); otherwise the value of \fIspacing\fR is used.
.PP
This layout has to be inserted into another layout before geometry management will work.
.SH "bool TQLayout::activate ()"
Redoes the layout for mainWidget(). You should generally not need to call this because it is automatically called at the most appropriate times.
.PP
However, if you set up a TQLayout for a visible widget without resizing that widget, you will need to call this function in order to lay it out.
.PP
See also TQWidget::updateGeometry().
.PP
Examples:
.)l layout/layout.cpp, popup/popup.cpp, scrollview/scrollview.cpp, and sql/overview/form1/main.cpp.
.SH "void TQLayout::add ( TQWidget * w )"
Adds widget \fIw\fR to this layout in a manner specific to the layout. This function uses addItem().
.PP
Examples:
.)l customlayout/border.cpp and customlayout/main.cpp.
.SH "void TQLayout::addChildLayout ( TQLayout * l )\fC [protected]\fR"
This function is called from addLayout() functions in subclasses to add layout \fIl\fR as a sub-layout.
.SH "void TQLayout::addItem ( TQLayoutItem * item )\fC [pure virtual]\fR"
Implemented in subclasses to add an \fIitem\fR. How it is added is specific to each subclass.
.PP
The ownership of \fIitem\fR is transferred to the layout, and it's the layout's responsibility to delete it.
.PP
Examples:
.)l customlayout/border.cpp, customlayout/card.cpp, and customlayout/flow.cpp.
.PP
Reimplemented in TQGridLayout and TQBoxLayout.
.SH "TQRect TQLayout::alignmentRect ( const TQRect & r ) const\fC [protected]\fR"
Returns the rectangle that should be covered when the geometry of this layout is set to \fIr\fR, provided that this layout supports setAlignment().
.PP
The result is derived from sizeHint() and expanding(). It is never larger than \fIr\fR.
.SH "bool TQLayout::autoAdd () const"
Returns TRUE if this layout automatically grabs all new mainWidget()'s new children and adds them as defined by addItem(); otherwise returns FALSE. This has effect only for top-level layouts, i.e. layouts that are direct children of their mainWidget().
.PP
autoAdd() is disabled by default.
.PP
Note that a top-level layout is not necessarily associated with the top-level widget.
.PP
See also setAutoAdd().
.SH "void TQLayout::deleteAllItems ()\fC [protected]\fR"
Removes and deletes all items in this layout.
.SH "TQSizePolicy::ExpandData TQLayout::expanding () const\fC [virtual]\fR"
Returns whether this layout can make use of more space than sizeHint(). A value of Vertical or Horizontal means that it wants to grow in only one dimension, whereas \fCBothDirections\fR means that it wants to grow in both dimensions.
.PP
The default implementation returns \fCBothDirections\fR.
.PP
Examples:
.)l customlayout/border.cpp and customlayout/flow.cpp.
.PP
Reimplemented from TQLayoutItem.
.PP
Reimplemented in TQGridLayout and TQBoxLayout.
.SH "void TQLayout::invalidate ()\fC [virtual]\fR"
Invalidates cached information. Reimplementations must call this.
.PP
Reimplemented from TQLayoutItem.
.PP
Reimplemented in TQGridLayout and TQBoxLayout.
.SH "bool TQLayout::isEmpty () const\fC [virtual]\fR"
Returns TRUE if this layout is empty. The default implementation returns FALSE.
.PP
Reimplemented from TQLayoutItem.
.SH "bool TQLayout::isEnabled () const"
Returns TRUE if the layout is enabled; otherwise returns FALSE.
.PP
See also setEnabled().
.SH "bool TQLayout::isTopLevel () const"
Returns TRUE if this layout is a top-level layout, i.e. not a child of another layout; otherwise returns FALSE.
.SH "TQLayoutIterator TQLayout::iterator ()\fC [pure virtual]\fR"
Implemented in subclasses to return an iterator that iterates over this layout's children.
.PP
A typical implementation will be:
.PP
.nf
.br
        TQLayoutIterator MyLayout::iterator()
.br
        {
.br
            TQGLayoutIterator *i = new MyLayoutIterator( internal_data );
.br
            return TQLayoutIterator( i );
.br
        }
.br
.fi
where MyLayoutIterator is a subclass of TQGLayoutIterator.
.PP
Examples:
.)l customlayout/border.cpp, customlayout/card.cpp, and customlayout/flow.cpp.
.PP
Reimplemented from TQLayoutItem.
.SH "TQWidget * TQLayout::mainWidget ()"
Returns the main widget (parent widget) of this layout, or 0 if this layout is a sub-layout that is not yet inserted.
.SH "int TQLayout::margin () const"
Returns the width of the outside border of the layout. See the "margin" property for details.
.SH "TQSize TQLayout::maximumSize () const\fC [virtual]\fR"
Returns the maximum size of this layout. This is the largest size that the layout can have while still respecting the specifications. Does not include what's needed by margin() or menuBar().
.PP
The default implementation allows unlimited resizing.
.PP
Reimplemented from TQLayoutItem.
.PP
Reimplemented in TQGridLayout and TQBoxLayout.
.SH "TQMenuBar * TQLayout::menuBar () const"
Returns the menu bar set for this layout, or 0 if no menu bar is set.
.SH "TQSize TQLayout::minimumSize () const\fC [virtual]\fR"
Returns the minimum size of this layout. This is the smallest size that the layout can have while still respecting the specifications. Does not include what's needed by margin() or menuBar().
.PP
The default implementation allows unlimited resizing.
.PP
Examples:
.)l customlayout/border.cpp, customlayout/card.cpp, and customlayout/flow.cpp.
.PP
Reimplemented from TQLayoutItem.
.PP
Reimplemented in TQGridLayout and TQBoxLayout.
.SH "void TQLayout::remove ( TQWidget * widget )"
Removes the widget \fIwidget\fR from the layout. After this call, it is the caller's responsibility to give the widget a reasonable geometry or to put the widget back into a layout.
.PP
See also removeItem(), TQWidget::geometry, and add().
.SH "void TQLayout::removeItem ( TQLayoutItem * item )"
Removes the layout item \fIitem\fR from the layout. It is the caller's responsibility to delete the item.
.PP
Notice that \fIitem\fR can be a layout (since TQLayout inherits TQLayoutItem).
.PP
See also remove() and addItem().
.SH "ResizeMode TQLayout::resizeMode () const"
Returns the resize mode of the layout. See the "resizeMode" property for details.
.SH "void TQLayout::setAutoAdd ( bool b )\fC [virtual]\fR"
If \fIb\fR is TRUE, auto-add is enabled; otherwise auto-add is disabled.
.PP
\fBWarning:\fR If auto-add is enabled, you cannot set stretch factors on the child widgets until the widgets are actually inserted in the layout (after control returned to the event loop). We therefore recommend that you avoid the auto-add feature in new programs.
.PP
See also autoAdd().
.PP
Examples:
.)l hierarchy/objects.cpp and i18n/main.cpp.
.SH "void TQLayout::setEnabled ( bool enable )"
Enables this layout if \fIenable\fR is TRUE, otherwise disables it.
.PP
An enabled layout adjusts dynamically to changes; a disabled layout acts as if it did not exist.
.PP
By default all layouts are enabled.
.PP
See also isEnabled().
.SH "void TQLayout::setGeometry ( const TQRect & r )\fC [pure virtual]\fR"
This function is reimplemented in subclasses to perform layout.
.PP
The default implementation maintains the geometry() information given by rect \fIr\fR. Reimplementors must call this function.
.PP
Examples:
.)l customlayout/border.cpp, customlayout/card.cpp, and customlayout/flow.cpp.
.PP
Reimplemented from TQLayoutItem.
.PP
Reimplemented in TQGridLayout and TQBoxLayout.
.SH "void TQLayout::setMargin ( int )\fC [virtual]\fR"
Sets the width of the outside border of the layout. See the "margin" property for details.
.SH "void TQLayout::setMenuBar ( TQMenuBar * w )\fC [virtual]\fR"
Makes the geometry manager take account of the menu bar \fIw\fR. All child widgets are placed below the bottom edge of the menu bar.
.PP
A menu bar does its own geometry management: never do addWidget() on a TQMenuBar.
.PP
Examples:
.)l layout/layout.cpp and scrollview/scrollview.cpp.
.SH "void TQLayout::setResizeMode ( ResizeMode )"
Sets the resize mode of the layout. See the "resizeMode" property for details.
.SH "void TQLayout::setSpacing ( int )\fC [virtual]\fR"
Sets the spacing between widgets inside the layout. See the "spacing" property for details.
.SH "void TQLayout::setSupportsMargin ( bool b )\fC [protected]\fR"
Sets the value returned by supportsMargin(). If \fIb\fR is TRUE, margin() handling is implemented by the subclass. If \fIb\fR is FALSE (the default), TQLayout will add margin() around top-level layouts.
.PP
If \fIb\fR is TRUE, margin handling needs to be implemented in setGeometry(), maximumSize(), minimumSize(), sizeHint() and heightForWidth().
.PP
See also supportsMargin().
.SH "int TQLayout::spacing () const"
Returns the spacing between widgets inside the layout. See the "spacing" property for details.
.SH "bool TQLayout::supportsMargin () const"
Returns TRUE if this layout supports TQLayout::margin on non-top-level layouts; otherwise returns FALSE.
.PP
See also margin.
.SS "Property Documentation"
.SH "int margin"
This property holds the width of the outside border of the layout.
.PP
For some layout classes this property has an effect only on top-level layouts; TQBoxLayout and TQGridLayout support margins for child layouts. The default value is 0.
.PP
See also spacing.
.PP
Set this property's value with setMargin() and get this property's value with margin().
.SH "ResizeMode resizeMode"
This property holds the resize mode of the layout.
.PP
The default mode is Auto.
.PP
See also TQLayout::ResizeMode.
.PP
Set this property's value with setResizeMode() and get this property's value with resizeMode().
.SH "int spacing"
This property holds the spacing between widgets inside the layout.
.PP
The default value is -1, which signifies that the layout's spacing should not override the widget's spacing.
.PP
See also margin.
.PP
Set this property's value with setSpacing() and get this property's value with spacing().

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR http://doc.trolltech.com/tqlayout.html
.BR http://www.trolltech.com/faq/tech.html
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright 1992-2007 Trolltech ASA, http://www.trolltech.com.  See the
license file included in the distribution for a complete license
statement.
.SH AUTHOR
Generated automatically from the source code.
.SH BUGS
If you find a bug in Qt, please report it as described in
.BR http://doc.trolltech.com/bughowto.html .
Good bug reports help us to help you. Thank you.
.P
The definitive TQt documentation is provided in HTML format; it is
located at $TQTDIR/doc/html and can be read using TQt Assistant or with
a web browser. This man page is provided as a convenience for those
users who prefer man pages, although this format is not officially
supported by Trolltech. 
.P
If you find errors in this manual page, please report them to
.BR qt-bugs@trolltech.com .
Please include the name of the manual page (tqlayout.3qt) and the Qt
version (3.3.8).
