'\" t
.TH TQListBoxPixmap 3qt "2 February 2007" "Trolltech AS" \" -*- nroff -*-
.\" Copyright 1992-2007 Trolltech ASA.  All rights reserved.  See the
.\" license file included in the distribution for a complete license
.\" statement.
.\"
.ad l
.nh
.SH NAME
TQListBoxPixmap \- List box items with a pixmap and optional text
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fC#include <tqlistbox.h>\fR
.PP
Inherits TQListBoxItem.
.PP
.SS "Public Members"
.in +1c
.ti -1c
.BI "\fBTQListBoxPixmap\fR ( TQListBox * listbox, const TQPixmap & pixmap )"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "\fBTQListBoxPixmap\fR ( const TQPixmap & pixmap )"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "\fBTQListBoxPixmap\fR ( TQListBox * listbox, const TQPixmap & pixmap, TQListBoxItem * after )"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "\fBTQListBoxPixmap\fR ( TQListBox * listbox, const TQPixmap & pix, const TQString & text )"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "\fBTQListBoxPixmap\fR ( const TQPixmap & pix, const TQString & text )"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "\fBTQListBoxPixmap\fR ( TQListBox * listbox, const TQPixmap & pix, const TQString & text, TQListBoxItem * after )"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "\fB~TQListBoxPixmap\fR ()"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "virtual const TQPixmap * \fBpixmap\fR () const"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "virtual int \fBheight\fR ( const TQListBox * lb ) const"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "virtual int \fBwidth\fR ( const TQListBox * lb ) const"
.br
.in -1c
.SS "Protected Members"
.in +1c
.ti -1c
.BI "virtual void \fBpaint\fR ( TQPainter * painter )"
.br
.in -1c
.SH DESCRIPTION
The TQListBoxPixmap class provides list box items with a pixmap and optional text.
.PP
Items of this class are drawn with the pixmap on the left with the optional text to the right of the pixmap.
.PP
See also TQListBox, TQListBoxItem, and Advanced Widgets.
.SH MEMBER FUNCTION DOCUMENTATION
.SH "TQListBoxPixmap::TQListBoxPixmap ( TQListBox * listbox, const TQPixmap & pixmap )"
Constructs a new list box item in list box \fIlistbox\fR showing the pixmap \fIpixmap\fR.
.SH "TQListBoxPixmap::TQListBoxPixmap ( const TQPixmap & pixmap )"
Constructs a new list box item showing the pixmap \fIpixmap\fR.
.SH "TQListBoxPixmap::TQListBoxPixmap ( TQListBox * listbox, const TQPixmap & pixmap, TQListBoxItem * after )"
Constructs a new list box item in list box \fIlistbox\fR showing the pixmap \fIpixmap\fR. The item gets inserted after the item \fIafter\fR, or at the beginning if \fIafter\fR is 0.
.SH "TQListBoxPixmap::TQListBoxPixmap ( TQListBox * listbox, const TQPixmap & pix, const TQString & text )"
Constructs a new list box item in list box \fIlistbox\fR showing the pixmap \fIpix\fR and the text \fItext\fR.
.SH "TQListBoxPixmap::TQListBoxPixmap ( const TQPixmap & pix, const TQString & text )"
Constructs a new list box item showing the pixmap \fIpix\fR and the text to \fItext\fR.
.SH "TQListBoxPixmap::TQListBoxPixmap ( TQListBox * listbox, const TQPixmap & pix, const TQString & text, TQListBoxItem * after )"
Constructs a new list box item in list box \fIlistbox\fR showing the pixmap \fIpix\fR and the string \fItext\fR. The item gets inserted after the item \fIafter\fR, or at the beginning if \fIafter\fR is 0.
.SH "TQListBoxPixmap::~TQListBoxPixmap ()"
Destroys the item.
.SH "int TQListBoxPixmap::height ( const TQListBox * lb ) const\fC [virtual]\fR"
Returns the height of the pixmap in list box \fIlb\fR.
.PP
See also paint() and width().
.PP
Reimplemented from TQListBoxItem.
.SH "void TQListBoxPixmap::paint ( TQPainter * painter )\fC [virtual protected]\fR"
Draws the pixmap using \fIpainter\fR.
.PP
Reimplemented from TQListBoxItem.
.SH "const TQPixmap * TQListBoxPixmap::pixmap () const\fC [virtual]\fR"
Returns the pixmap associated with the item.
.PP
Reimplemented from TQListBoxItem.
.SH "int TQListBoxPixmap::width ( const TQListBox * lb ) const\fC [virtual]\fR"
Returns the width of the pixmap plus some margin in list box \fIlb\fR.
.PP
See also paint() and height().
.PP
Reimplemented from TQListBoxItem.

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR http://doc.trolltech.com/tqlistboxpixmap.html
.BR http://www.trolltech.com/faq/tech.html
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright 1992-2007 Trolltech ASA, http://www.trolltech.com.  See the
license file included in the distribution for a complete license
statement.
.SH AUTHOR
Generated automatically from the source code.
.SH BUGS
If you find a bug in Qt, please report it as described in
.BR http://doc.trolltech.com/bughowto.html .
Good bug reports help us to help you. Thank you.
.P
The definitive TQt documentation is provided in HTML format; it is
located at $TQTDIR/doc/html and can be read using TQt Assistant or with
a web browser. This man page is provided as a convenience for those
users who prefer man pages, although this format is not officially
supported by Trolltech. 
.P
If you find errors in this manual page, please report them to
.BR qt-bugs@trolltech.com .
Please include the name of the manual page (tqlistboxpixmap.3qt) and the Qt
version (3.3.8).
