'\" t
.TH TQMoveEvent 3qt "2 February 2007" "Trolltech AS" \" -*- nroff -*-
.\" Copyright 1992-2007 Trolltech ASA.  All rights reserved.  See the
.\" license file included in the distribution for a complete license
.\" statement.
.\"
.ad l
.nh
.SH NAME
TQMoveEvent \- Event parameters for move events
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fC#include <tqevent.h>\fR
.PP
Inherits TQEvent.
.PP
.SS "Public Members"
.in +1c
.ti -1c
.BI "\fBTQMoveEvent\fR ( const TQPoint & pos, const TQPoint & oldPos )"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "const TQPoint & \fBpos\fR () const"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "const TQPoint & \fBoldPos\fR () const"
.br
.in -1c
.SH DESCRIPTION
The TQMoveEvent class contains event parameters for move events.
.PP
Move events are sent to widgets that have been moved to a new position relative to their parent.
.PP
The event handler TQWidget::moveEvent() receives move events.
.PP
See also TQWidget::pos, TQWidget::geometry, and Event Classes.
.SH MEMBER FUNCTION DOCUMENTATION
.SH "TQMoveEvent::TQMoveEvent ( const TQPoint & pos, const TQPoint & oldPos )"
Constructs a move event with the new and old widget positions, \fIpos\fR and \fIoldPos\fR respectively.
.SH "const TQPoint & TQMoveEvent::oldPos () const"
Returns the old position of the widget.
.SH "const TQPoint & TQMoveEvent::pos () const"
Returns the new position of the widget. This excludes the window
frame for top level widgets.

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR http://doc.trolltech.com/tqmoveevent.html
.BR http://www.trolltech.com/faq/tech.html
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright 1992-2007 Trolltech ASA, http://www.trolltech.com.  See the
license file included in the distribution for a complete license
statement.
.SH AUTHOR
Generated automatically from the source code.
.SH BUGS
If you find a bug in Qt, please report it as described in
.BR http://doc.trolltech.com/bughowto.html .
Good bug reports help us to help you. Thank you.
.P
The definitive TQt documentation is provided in HTML format; it is
located at $TQTDIR/doc/html and can be read using TQt Assistant or with
a web browser. This man page is provided as a convenience for those
users who prefer man pages, although this format is not officially
supported by Trolltech. 
.P
If you find errors in this manual page, please report them to
.BR qt-bugs@trolltech.com .
Please include the name of the manual page (tqmoveevent.3qt) and the Qt
version (3.3.8).
