'\" t
.TH TQObjectListIterator 3qt "2 February 2007" "Trolltech AS" \" -*- nroff -*-
.\" Copyright 1992-2007 Trolltech ASA.  All rights reserved.  See the
.\" license file included in the distribution for a complete license
.\" statement.
.\"
.ad l
.nh
.SH NAME
TQObjectListIterator \- Iterator for TQObjectLists
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fC#include <tqobjectlist.h>\fR
.PP
Inherits TQPtrListIterator<TQObject>.
.PP
.SS "Public Members"
.in +1c
.ti -1c
.BI "\fBTQObjectListIterator\fR ( const TQObjectList & list )"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "TQObjectListIterator & \fBoperator=\fR ( const TQObjectListIterator & it )"
.br
.in -1c
.SH DESCRIPTION
The TQObjectListIterator class provides an iterator for TQObjectLists.
.PP
A TQObjectListIterator iterator is a TQPtrListIterator<TQObject>.
.PP
See TQObject::queryList() for an example of use.
.PP
See also TQObjectList, Collection Classes, and Non-GUI Classes.
.SH MEMBER FUNCTION DOCUMENTATION
.SH "TQObjectListIterator::TQObjectListIterator ( const TQObjectList & list )"
Constructs an iterator for \fIlist\fR. The current iterator item is set to point on the first item in the \fIlist\fR.
.SH "TQObjectListIterator & TQObjectListIterator::operator= ( const TQObjectListIterator & it )"
Assignment. Makes a copy of the iterator \fIit\fR and returns a
reference to this iterator.

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR http://doc.trolltech.com/tqobjectlistiterator.html
.BR http://www.trolltech.com/faq/tech.html
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright 1992-2007 Trolltech ASA, http://www.trolltech.com.  See the
license file included in the distribution for a complete license
statement.
.SH AUTHOR
Generated automatically from the source code.
.SH BUGS
If you find a bug in Qt, please report it as described in
.BR http://doc.trolltech.com/bughowto.html .
Good bug reports help us to help you. Thank you.
.P
The definitive TQt documentation is provided in HTML format; it is
located at $TQTDIR/doc/html and can be read using TQt Assistant or with
a web browser. This man page is provided as a convenience for those
users who prefer man pages, although this format is not officially
supported by Trolltech. 
.P
If you find errors in this manual page, please report them to
.BR qt-bugs@trolltech.com .
Please include the name of the manual page (tqobjectlistiterator.3qt) and the Qt
version (3.3.8).
