'\" t
.TH TQResizeEvent 3qt "2 February 2007" "Trolltech AS" \" -*- nroff -*-
.\" Copyright 1992-2007 Trolltech ASA.  All rights reserved.  See the
.\" license file included in the distribution for a complete license
.\" statement.
.\"
.ad l
.nh
.SH NAME
TQResizeEvent \- Event parameters for resize events
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fC#include <tqevent.h>\fR
.PP
Inherits TQEvent.
.PP
.SS "Public Members"
.in +1c
.ti -1c
.BI "\fBTQResizeEvent\fR ( const TQSize & size, const TQSize & oldSize )"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "const TQSize & \fBsize\fR () const"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "const TQSize & \fBoldSize\fR () const"
.br
.in -1c
.SH DESCRIPTION
The TQResizeEvent class contains event parameters for resize events.
.PP
Resize events are sent to widgets that have been resized.
.PP
The event handler TQWidget::resizeEvent() receives resize events.
.PP
See also TQWidget::size, TQWidget::geometry, and Event Classes.
.SH MEMBER FUNCTION DOCUMENTATION
.SH "TQResizeEvent::TQResizeEvent ( const TQSize & size, const TQSize & oldSize )"
Constructs a resize event with the new and old widget sizes, \fIsize\fR and \fIoldSize\fR respectively.
.SH "const TQSize & TQResizeEvent::oldSize () const"
Returns the old size of the widget.
.SH "const TQSize & TQResizeEvent::size () const"
Returns the new size of the widget, which is the same as TQWidget::size().
.PP
Examples:
.)l chart/canvasview.cpp and life/life.cpp.

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR http://doc.trolltech.com/tqresizeevent.html
.BR http://www.trolltech.com/faq/tech.html
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright 1992-2007 Trolltech ASA, http://www.trolltech.com.  See the
license file included in the distribution for a complete license
statement.
.SH AUTHOR
Generated automatically from the source code.
.SH BUGS
If you find a bug in Qt, please report it as described in
.BR http://doc.trolltech.com/bughowto.html .
Good bug reports help us to help you. Thank you.
.P
The definitive TQt documentation is provided in HTML format; it is
located at $TQTDIR/doc/html and can be read using TQt Assistant or with
a web browser. This man page is provided as a convenience for those
users who prefer man pages, although this format is not officially
supported by Trolltech. 
.P
If you find errors in this manual page, please report them to
.BR qt-bugs@trolltech.com .
Please include the name of the manual page (tqresizeevent.3qt) and the Qt
version (3.3.8).
