'\" t
.TH TQSignalMapper 3qt "2 February 2007" "Trolltech AS" \" -*- nroff -*-
.\" Copyright 1992-2007 Trolltech ASA.  All rights reserved.  See the
.\" license file included in the distribution for a complete license
.\" statement.
.\"
.ad l
.nh
.SH NAME
TQSignalMapper \- Bundles signals from identifiable senders
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fC#include <tqsignalmapper.h>\fR
.PP
Inherits TQObject.
.PP
.SS "Public Members"
.in +1c
.ti -1c
.BI "\fBTQSignalMapper\fR ( TQObject * parent, const char * name = 0 )"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "\fB~TQSignalMapper\fR ()"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "virtual void \fBsetMapping\fR ( const TQObject * sender, int identifier )"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "virtual void \fBsetMapping\fR ( const TQObject * sender, const TQString & identifier )"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "void \fBremoveMappings\fR ( const TQObject * sender )"
.br
.in -1c
.SS "Public Slots"
.in +1c
.ti -1c
.BI "void \fBmap\fR ()"
.br
.in -1c
.SS "Signals"
.in +1c
.ti -1c
.BI "void \fBmapped\fR ( int )"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "void \fBmapped\fR ( const TQString & )"
.br
.in -1c
.SH DESCRIPTION
The TQSignalMapper class bundles signals from identifiable senders.
.PP
This class collects a set of parameterless signals, and re-emits them with integer or string parameters corresponding to the object that sent the signal.
.PP
See also Input/Output and Networking.
.SH MEMBER FUNCTION DOCUMENTATION
.SH "TQSignalMapper::TQSignalMapper ( TQObject * parent, const char * name = 0 )"
Constructs a TQSignalMapper called \fIname\fR, with parent \fIparent\fR. Like all TQObjects, it will be deleted when the parent is deleted.
.SH "TQSignalMapper::~TQSignalMapper ()"
Destroys the TQSignalMapper.
.SH "void TQSignalMapper::map ()\fC [slot]\fR"
This slot emits signals based on which object sends signals to it.
.PP
Examples:
.)l i18n/main.cpp and themes/themes.cpp.
.SH "void TQSignalMapper::mapped ( int )\fC [signal]\fR"
This signal is emitted when map() is signaled from an object that has an integer mapping set.
.PP
See also setMapping().
.PP
Examples:
.)l i18n/main.cpp and themes/themes.cpp.
.SH "void TQSignalMapper::mapped ( const TQString & )\fC [signal]\fR"
This is an overloaded member function, provided for convenience. It behaves essentially like the above function.
.PP
This signal is emitted when map() is signaled from an object that has a string mapping set.
.PP
See also setMapping().
.SH "void TQSignalMapper::removeMappings ( const TQObject * sender )"
Removes all mappings for \fIsender\fR. This is done automatically when mapped objects are destroyed.
.SH "void TQSignalMapper::setMapping ( const TQObject * sender, int identifier )\fC [virtual]\fR"
Adds a mapping so that when map() is signaled from the given \fIsender\fR, the signal mapped(\fIidentifier\fR) is emitted.
.PP
There may be at most one integer identifier for each object.
.PP
Examples:
.)l i18n/main.cpp and themes/themes.cpp.
.SH "void TQSignalMapper::setMapping ( const TQObject * sender, const TQString & identifier )\fC [virtual]\fR"
This is an overloaded member function, provided for convenience. It behaves essentially like the above function.
.PP
Adds a mapping so that when map() is signaled from the given \fIsender\fR, the signal mapper(\fIidentifier\fR) is emitted.
.PP
There may be at most one string identifier for each object, and it
may not be empty.

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR http://doc.trolltech.com/tqsignalmapper.html
.BR http://www.trolltech.com/faq/tech.html
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright 1992-2007 Trolltech ASA, http://www.trolltech.com.  See the
license file included in the distribution for a complete license
statement.
.SH AUTHOR
Generated automatically from the source code.
.SH BUGS
If you find a bug in Qt, please report it as described in
.BR http://doc.trolltech.com/bughowto.html .
Good bug reports help us to help you. Thank you.
.P
The definitive TQt documentation is provided in HTML format; it is
located at $TQTDIR/doc/html and can be read using TQt Assistant or with
a web browser. This man page is provided as a convenience for those
users who prefer man pages, although this format is not officially
supported by Trolltech. 
.P
If you find errors in this manual page, please report them to
.BR qt-bugs@trolltech.com .
Please include the name of the manual page (tqsignalmapper.3qt) and the Qt
version (3.3.8).
