'\" t
.TH TQSpacerItem 3qt "2 February 2007" "Trolltech AS" \" -*- nroff -*-
.\" Copyright 1992-2007 Trolltech ASA.  All rights reserved.  See the
.\" license file included in the distribution for a complete license
.\" statement.
.\"
.ad l
.nh
.SH NAME
TQSpacerItem \- Blank space in a layout
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fC#include <tqlayout.h>\fR
.PP
Inherits TQLayoutItem.
.PP
.SS "Public Members"
.in +1c
.ti -1c
.BI "\fBTQSpacerItem\fR ( int w, int h, TQSizePolicy::SizeType hData = TQSizePolicy::Minimum, TQSizePolicy::SizeType vData = TQSizePolicy::Minimum )"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "void \fBchangeSize\fR ( int w, int h, TQSizePolicy::SizeType hData = TQSizePolicy::Minimum, TQSizePolicy::SizeType vData = TQSizePolicy::Minimum )"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "virtual TQSize \fBsizeHint\fR () const"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "virtual TQSize \fBminimumSize\fR () const"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "virtual TQSize \fBmaximumSize\fR () const"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "virtual TQSizePolicy::ExpandData \fBexpanding\fR () const"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "virtual bool \fBisEmpty\fR () const"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "virtual void \fBsetGeometry\fR ( const TQRect & r )"
.br
.in -1c
.SH DESCRIPTION
The TQSpacerItem class provides blank space in a layout.
.PP
This class is used by custom layouts.
.PP
See also TQLayout, TQLayout::spacerItem(), Widget Appearance and Style, and Layout Management.
.SH MEMBER FUNCTION DOCUMENTATION
.SH "TQSpacerItem::TQSpacerItem ( int w, int h, TQSizePolicy::SizeType hData = TQSizePolicy::Minimum, TQSizePolicy::SizeType vData = TQSizePolicy::Minimum )"
Constructs a spacer item with preferred width \fIw\fR, preferred height \fIh\fR, horizontal size policy \fIhData\fR and vertical size policy \fIvData\fR.
.PP
The default values provide a gap that is able to stretch if nothing else wants the space.
.SH "void TQSpacerItem::changeSize ( int w, int h, TQSizePolicy::SizeType hData = TQSizePolicy::Minimum, TQSizePolicy::SizeType vData = TQSizePolicy::Minimum )"
Changes this spacer item to have preferred width \fIw\fR, preferred height \fIh\fR, horizontal size policy \fIhData\fR and vertical size policy \fIvData\fR.
.PP
The default values provide a gap that is able to stretch if nothing else wants the space.
.SH "TQSizePolicy::ExpandData TQSpacerItem::expanding () const\fC [virtual]\fR"
Returns the direction in which this spacer item will expand.
.PP
See also TQSizePolicy::ExpandData.
.PP
Reimplemented from TQLayoutItem.
.SH "bool TQSpacerItem::isEmpty () const\fC [virtual]\fR"
Returns TRUE because a spacer item never contains widgets.
.PP
Reimplemented from TQLayoutItem.
.SH "TQSize TQSpacerItem::maximumSize () const\fC [virtual]\fR"
Returns the maximum size of this spacer item.
.PP
Reimplemented from TQLayoutItem.
.SH "TQSize TQSpacerItem::minimumSize () const\fC [virtual]\fR"
Returns the minimum size of this spacer item.
.PP
Reimplemented from TQLayoutItem.
.SH "void TQSpacerItem::setGeometry ( const TQRect & r )\fC [virtual]\fR"
Stores the spacer item's rect \fIr\fR so that it can be returned by geometry().
.PP
Reimplemented from TQLayoutItem.
.SH "TQSize TQSpacerItem::sizeHint () const\fC [virtual]\fR"
Returns the preferred size of this spacer item.
.PP
Reimplemented from TQLayoutItem.

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR http://doc.trolltech.com/tqspaceritem.html
.BR http://www.trolltech.com/faq/tech.html
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright 1992-2007 Trolltech ASA, http://www.trolltech.com.  See the
license file included in the distribution for a complete license
statement.
.SH AUTHOR
Generated automatically from the source code.
.SH BUGS
If you find a bug in Qt, please report it as described in
.BR http://doc.trolltech.com/bughowto.html .
Good bug reports help us to help you. Thank you.
.P
The definitive TQt documentation is provided in HTML format; it is
located at $TQTDIR/doc/html and can be read using TQt Assistant or with
a web browser. This man page is provided as a convenience for those
users who prefer man pages, although this format is not officially
supported by Trolltech. 
.P
If you find errors in this manual page, please report them to
.BR qt-bugs@trolltech.com .
Please include the name of the manual page (tqspaceritem.3qt) and the Qt
version (3.3.8).
