'\" t
.TH TQSqlSelectCursor 3qt "2 February 2007" "Trolltech AS" \" -*- nroff -*-
.\" Copyright 1992-2007 Trolltech ASA.  All rights reserved.  See the
.\" license file included in the distribution for a complete license
.\" statement.
.\"
.ad l
.nh
.SH NAME
TQSqlSelectCursor \- Browsing of general SQL SELECT statements
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fC#include <tqsqlselectcursor.h>\fR
.PP
Inherits TQSqlCursor.
.PP
.SS "Public Members"
.in +1c
.ti -1c
.BI "\fBTQSqlSelectCursor\fR ( const TQString & query = TQString::null, TQSqlDatabase * db = 0 )"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "\fBTQSqlSelectCursor\fR ( const TQSqlSelectCursor & other )"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "\fB~TQSqlSelectCursor\fR ()"
.br
.in -1c
.SH DESCRIPTION
The TQSqlSelectCursor class provides browsing of general SQL SELECT statements.
.PP
TQSqlSelectCursor is a convenience class that makes it possible to display result sets from general SQL \fCSELECT\fR statements in data-aware TQt widgets. TQSqlSelectCursor is read-only and does not support \fCINSERT\fR, \fCUPDATE\fR or \fCDELETE\fR operations.
.PP
Pass the query in at construction time, or use the TQSqlSelectCursor::exec() function.
.PP
Example:
.PP
.nf
.br
    ...
.br
    TQSqlSelectCursor* cur = new TQSqlSelectCursor( "SELECT id, firstname, lastname FROM author" );
.br
    TQDataTable* table = new TQDataTable( this );
.br
    table->setSqlCursor( cur, TRUE, TRUE );
.br
    table->refresh();
.br
    ...
.br
    cur->exec( "SELECT * FROM books" );
.br
    table->refresh();
.br
    ...
.br
.fi
.PP
See also Database Classes.
.SH MEMBER FUNCTION DOCUMENTATION
.SH "TQSqlSelectCursor::TQSqlSelectCursor ( const TQString & query = TQString::null, TQSqlDatabase * db = 0 )"
Constructs a read only cursor on database \fIdb\fR using the query \fIquery\fR.
.SH "TQSqlSelectCursor::TQSqlSelectCursor ( const TQSqlSelectCursor & other )"
Constructs a copy of \fIother\fR
.SH "TQSqlSelectCursor::~TQSqlSelectCursor ()"
Destroys the object and frees any allocated resources 

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR http://doc.trolltech.com/tqsqlselectcursor.html
.BR http://www.trolltech.com/faq/tech.html
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright 1992-2007 Trolltech ASA, http://www.trolltech.com.  See the
license file included in the distribution for a complete license
statement.
.SH AUTHOR
Generated automatically from the source code.
.SH BUGS
If you find a bug in Qt, please report it as described in
.BR http://doc.trolltech.com/bughowto.html .
Good bug reports help us to help you. Thank you.
.P
The definitive TQt documentation is provided in HTML format; it is
located at $TQTDIR/doc/html and can be read using TQt Assistant or with
a web browser. This man page is provided as a convenience for those
users who prefer man pages, although this format is not officially
supported by Trolltech. 
.P
If you find errors in this manual page, please report them to
.BR qt-bugs@trolltech.com .
Please include the name of the manual page (tqsqlselectcursor.3qt) and the Qt
version (3.3.8).
