'\" t
.TH TQTab 3qt "2 February 2007" "Trolltech AS" \" -*- nroff -*-
.\" Copyright 1992-2007 Trolltech ASA.  All rights reserved.  See the
.\" license file included in the distribution for a complete license
.\" statement.
.\"
.ad l
.nh
.SH NAME
TQTab \- The structures in a TQTabBar
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fC#include <tqtabbar.h>\fR
.PP
Inherits Qt.
.PP
.SS "Public Members"
.in +1c
.ti -1c
.BI "\fBTQTab\fR ()"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "virtual \fB~TQTab\fR ()"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "\fBTQTab\fR ( const TQString & text )"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "\fBTQTab\fR ( const TQIconSet & icon, const TQString & text = TQString::null )"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "void \fBsetText\fR ( const TQString & text )"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "TQString \fBtext\fR () const"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "void \fBsetIconSet\fR ( const TQIconSet & icon )"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "TQIconSet * \fBiconSet\fR () const"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "void \fBsetRect\fR ( const TQRect & rect )"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "TQRect \fBrect\fR () const"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "void \fBsetEnabled\fR ( bool enable )"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "bool \fBisEnabled\fR () const"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "void \fBsetIdentifier\fR ( int i )"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "int \fBidentifier\fR () const"
.br
.in -1c
.SH DESCRIPTION
The TQTab class provides the structures in a TQTabBar.
.PP
This class is used for custom TQTabBar tab headings.
.PP
See also TQTabBar and Advanced Widgets.
.SH MEMBER FUNCTION DOCUMENTATION
.SH "TQTab::TQTab ()"
Constructs an empty tab. All fields are set to empty.
.SH "TQTab::TQTab ( const TQString & text )"
Constructs a tab with the text \fItext\fR.
.SH "TQTab::TQTab ( const TQIconSet & icon, const TQString & text = TQString::null )"
Constructs a tab with an \fIicon\fR and the text, \fItext\fR.
.SH "TQTab::~TQTab ()\fC [virtual]\fR"
Destroys the tab and frees up all allocated resources.
.SH "TQIconSet * TQTab::iconSet () const"
Return the TQIconSet of the TQTab.
.SH "int TQTab::identifier () const"
Return the TQTab's identifier.
.SH "bool TQTab::isEnabled () const"
Returns TRUE if the TQTab is enabled; otherwise returns FALSE.
.SH "TQRect TQTab::rect () const"
Return the TQRect for the TQTab.
.SH "void TQTab::setEnabled ( bool enable )"
If \fIenable\fR is TRUE enable the TQTab, otherwise disable it.
.SH "void TQTab::setIconSet ( const TQIconSet & icon )"
Sets the tab's iconset to \fIicon\fR
.SH "void TQTab::setIdentifier ( int i )"
Set the identifier for the TQTab to \fIi\fR. Each TQTab's identifier within a TQTabBar must be unique.
.SH "void TQTab::setRect ( const TQRect & rect )"
Set the TQTab TQRect to \fIrect\fR.
.SH "void TQTab::setText ( const TQString & text )"
Sets the text of the tab to \fItext\fR.
.SH "TQString TQTab::text () const"
Returns the text of the TQTab label.

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR http://doc.trolltech.com/tqtab.html
.BR http://www.trolltech.com/faq/tech.html
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright 1992-2007 Trolltech ASA, http://www.trolltech.com.  See the
license file included in the distribution for a complete license
statement.
.SH AUTHOR
Generated automatically from the source code.
.SH BUGS
If you find a bug in Qt, please report it as described in
.BR http://doc.trolltech.com/bughowto.html .
Good bug reports help us to help you. Thank you.
.P
The definitive TQt documentation is provided in HTML format; it is
located at $TQTDIR/doc/html and can be read using TQt Assistant or with
a web browser. This man page is provided as a convenience for those
users who prefer man pages, although this format is not officially
supported by Trolltech. 
.P
If you find errors in this manual page, please report them to
.BR qt-bugs@trolltech.com .
Please include the name of the manual page (tqtab.3qt) and the Qt
version (3.3.8).
