'\" t
.TH TQTextOStream 3qt "2 February 2007" "Trolltech AS" \" -*- nroff -*-
.\" Copyright 1992-2007 Trolltech ASA.  All rights reserved.  See the
.\" license file included in the distribution for a complete license
.\" statement.
.\"
.ad l
.nh
.SH NAME
TQTextOStream \- Convenience class for output streams
.SH SYNOPSIS
All the functions in this class are reentrant when TQt is built with thread support.</p>
.PP
\fC#include <tqtextstream.h>\fR
.PP
Inherits TQTextStream.
.PP
.SS "Public Members"
.in +1c
.ti -1c
.BI "\fBTQTextOStream\fR ( TQString * s )"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "\fBTQTextOStream\fR ( TQByteArray ba )"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "\fBTQTextOStream\fR ( FILE * f )"
.br
.in -1c
.SH DESCRIPTION
The TQTextOStream class is a convenience class for output streams.
.PP
This class provides a shorthand for creating simple output TQTextStreams without having to pass a \fImode\fR argument to the constructor.
.PP
This makes it easy for example, to write things like this:
.PP
.nf
.br
    TQString result;
.br
    TQTextOStream(&result) << "pi = " << 3.14;
.br
.fi
.PP
See also Input/Output and Networking and Text Related Classes.
.SH MEMBER FUNCTION DOCUMENTATION
.SH "TQTextOStream::TQTextOStream ( TQString * s )"
Constructs a stream to write to string \fIs\fR.
.SH "TQTextOStream::TQTextOStream ( TQByteArray ba )"
Constructs a stream to write to the array \fIba\fR.
.SH "TQTextOStream::TQTextOStream ( FILE * f )"
Constructs a stream to write to the file \fIf\fR.

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR http://doc.trolltech.com/tqtextostream.html
.BR http://www.trolltech.com/faq/tech.html
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright 1992-2007 Trolltech ASA, http://www.trolltech.com.  See the
license file included in the distribution for a complete license
statement.
.SH AUTHOR
Generated automatically from the source code.
.SH BUGS
If you find a bug in Qt, please report it as described in
.BR http://doc.trolltech.com/bughowto.html .
Good bug reports help us to help you. Thank you.
.P
The definitive TQt documentation is provided in HTML format; it is
located at $TQTDIR/doc/html and can be read using TQt Assistant or with
a web browser. This man page is provided as a convenience for those
users who prefer man pages, although this format is not officially
supported by Trolltech. 
.P
If you find errors in this manual page, please report them to
.BR qt-bugs@trolltech.com .
Please include the name of the manual page (tqtextostream.3qt) and the Qt
version (3.3.8).
