'\" t
.TH TQUrlOperator 3qt "2 February 2007" "Trolltech AS" \" -*- nroff -*-
.\" Copyright 1992-2007 Trolltech ASA.  All rights reserved.  See the
.\" license file included in the distribution for a complete license
.\" statement.
.\"
.ad l
.nh
.SH NAME
TQUrlOperator \- Common operations on URLs
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fC#include <tqurloperator.h>\fR
.PP
Inherits TQObject and TQUrl.
.PP
.SS "Public Members"
.in +1c
.ti -1c
.BI "\fBTQUrlOperator\fR ()"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "\fBTQUrlOperator\fR ( const TQString & url )"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "\fBTQUrlOperator\fR ( const TQUrlOperator & url )"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "\fBTQUrlOperator\fR ( const TQUrlOperator & url, const TQString & relUrl, bool checkSlash = FALSE )"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "virtual \fB~TQUrlOperator\fR ()"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "virtual const TQNetworkOperation * \fBlistChildren\fR ()"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "virtual const TQNetworkOperation * \fBmkdir\fR ( const TQString & dirname )"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "virtual const TQNetworkOperation * \fBremove\fR ( const TQString & filename )"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "virtual const TQNetworkOperation * \fBrename\fR ( const TQString & oldname, const TQString & newname )"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "virtual const TQNetworkOperation * \fBget\fR ( const TQString & location = TQString::null )"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "virtual const TQNetworkOperation * \fBput\fR ( const TQByteArray & data, const TQString & location = TQString::null )"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "virtual TQPtrList<TQNetworkOperation> \fBcopy\fR ( const TQString & from, const TQString & to, bool move = FALSE, bool toPath = TRUE )"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "virtual void \fBcopy\fR ( const TQStringList & files, const TQString & dest, bool move = FALSE )"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "virtual bool \fBisDir\fR ( bool * ok = 0 )"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "virtual void \fBsetNameFilter\fR ( const TQString & nameFilter )"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "TQString \fBnameFilter\fR () const"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "virtual TQUrlInfo \fBinfo\fR ( const TQString & entry ) const"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "virtual void \fBstop\fR ()"
.br
.in -1c
.SS "Signals"
.in +1c
.ti -1c
.BI "void \fBnewChildren\fR ( const TQValueList<TQUrlInfo> & i, TQNetworkOperation * op )"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "void \fBfinished\fR ( TQNetworkOperation * op )"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "void \fBstart\fR ( TQNetworkOperation * op )"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "void \fBcreatedDirectory\fR ( const TQUrlInfo & i, TQNetworkOperation * op )"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "void \fBremoved\fR ( TQNetworkOperation * op )"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "void \fBitemChanged\fR ( TQNetworkOperation * op )"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "void \fBdata\fR ( const TQByteArray & data, TQNetworkOperation * op )"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "void \fBdataTransferProgress\fR ( int bytesDone, int bytesTotal, TQNetworkOperation * op )"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "void \fBstartedNextCopy\fR ( const TQPtrList<TQNetworkOperation> & lst )"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "void \fBconnectionStateChanged\fR ( int state, const TQString & data )"
.br
.in -1c
.SS "Protected Members"
.in +1c
.ti -1c
.BI "virtual void \fBclearEntries\fR ()"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "void \fBgetNetworkProtocol\fR ()"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "void \fBdeleteNetworkProtocol\fR ()"
.br
.in -1c
.SH RELATED FUNCTION DOCUMENTATION
.in +1c
.ti -1c
.BI "void \fBqInitNetworkProtocols\fR ()"
.br
.in -1c
.SH DESCRIPTION
The TQUrlOperator class provides common operations on URLs.
.PP
This class operates on hierarchical structures (such as filesystems) using URLs. Its API facilitates all the common operations: <center>.nf
.TS
l - l. Operation Function List files listChildren() Make a directory mkdir() Remove a file remove() Rename a file rename() Get a file get() Put a file put() Copy a file
.TE
.fi
</center>
.PP
You can obtain additional information about the URL with isDir() and info(). If a directory is to be traversed using listChildren(), a name filter can be set with setNameFilter().
.PP
A TQUrlOperator can be used like this, for example to download a file (and assuming that the FTP protocol is registered):
.PP
.nf
.br
    TQUrlOperator *op = new TQUrlOperator();
.br
    op->copy( TQString("ftp://ftp.trolltech.com/qt/source/qt-2.1.0.tar.gz"),
.br
             "file:/tmp" );
.br
.fi
.PP
If you want to be notified about success/failure, progress, etc., you can connect to TQUrlOperator's signals, e.g. to start(), newChildren(), createdDirectory(), removed(), data(), dataTransferProgress(), startedNextCopy(), connectionStateChanged(), finished(), etc. A network operation can be stopped with stop().
.PP
The class uses the functionality of registered network protocols to perform these operations. Depending of the protocol of the URL, it uses an appropriate network protocol class for the operations. Each of the operation functions of TQUrlOperator creates a TQNetworkOperation object that describes the operation and puts it into the operation queue for the network protocol used. If no suitable protocol could be found (because no implementation of the necessary network protocol is registered), the URL operator emits errors. Not every protocol supports every operation, but error handling deals with this problem.
.PP
To register the available network protocols, use the tqInitNetworkProtocols() function. The protocols currently supported are:
.TP
FTP,
.TP
HTTP,
.TP
local file system.
.PP
For more information about the TQt Network Architecture see the TQt Network Documentation.
.PP
See also TQNetworkProtocol, TQNetworkOperation, Input/Output and Networking, and Miscellaneous Classes.
.SH MEMBER FUNCTION DOCUMENTATION
.SH "TQUrlOperator::TQUrlOperator ()"
Constructs a TQUrlOperator with an empty (i.e. invalid) URL.
.SH "TQUrlOperator::TQUrlOperator ( const TQString & url )"
Constructs a TQUrlOperator using \fIurl\fR and parses this string.
.PP
If you pass strings like "/home/qt" the "file" protocol is assumed.
.SH "TQUrlOperator::TQUrlOperator ( const TQUrlOperator & url )"
Constructs a copy of \fIurl\fR.
.SH "TQUrlOperator::TQUrlOperator ( const TQUrlOperator & url, const TQString & relUrl, bool checkSlash = FALSE )"
Constructs a TQUrlOperator. The URL on which this TQUrlOperator operates is constructed out of the arguments \fIurl\fR, \fIrelUrl\fR and \fIcheckSlash\fR: see the corresponding TQUrl constructor for an explanation of these arguments.
.SH "TQUrlOperator::~TQUrlOperator ()\fC [virtual]\fR"
Destructor.
.SH "void TQUrlOperator::clearEntries ()\fC [virtual protected]\fR"
Clears the cache of children.
.SH "void TQUrlOperator::connectionStateChanged ( int state, const TQString & data )\fC [signal]\fR"
This signal is emitted whenever the URL operator's connection state changes. \fIstate\fR describes the new state, which is a TQNetworkProtocol::ConnectionState value.
.PP
\fIdata\fR is a string that describes the change of the connection. This can be used to display a message to the user.
.SH "TQPtrList<TQNetworkOperation> TQUrlOperator::copy ( const TQString & from, const TQString & to, bool move = FALSE, bool toPath = TRUE )\fC [virtual]\fR"
Copies the file \fIfrom\fR to \fIto\fR. If \fImove\fR is TRUE, the file is moved (copied and removed). \fIfrom\fR must point to a file and \fIto\fR must point to a directory (into which \fIfrom\fR is copied) unless \fItoPath\fR is set to FALSE. If \fItoPath\fR is set to FALSE then the \fIto\fR variable is assumed to be the absolute file path (destination file path + file name). The copying is done using the get() and put() operations. If you want to be notified about the progress of the operation, connect to the dataTransferProgress() signal. Bear in mind that the get() and put() operations emit this signal through the TQUrlOperator. The number of transferred bytes and the total bytes that you receive as arguments in this signal do not relate to the the whole copy operation; they relate first to the get() and then to the put() operation. Always check what type of operation the signal comes from; this is given in the signal's last argument.
.PP
At the end, finished() (with success or failure) is emitted, so check the state of the network operation object to see whether or not the operation was successful.
.PP
Because a move or copy operation consists of multiple operations (get(), put() and maybe remove()), this function doesn't return a single TQNetworkOperation, but rather a list of them. They are in the order: get(), put() and (if applicable) remove().
.PP
See also get() and put().
.SH "void TQUrlOperator::copy ( const TQStringList & files, const TQString & dest, bool move = FALSE )\fC [virtual]\fR"
This is an overloaded member function, provided for convenience. It behaves essentially like the above function.
.PP
Copies the \fIfiles\fR to the directory \fIdest\fR. If \fImove\fR is TRUE the files are moved, not copied. \fIdest\fR must point to a directory.
.PP
This function calls copy() for each entry in \fIfiles\fR in turn. You don't get a result from this function; each time a new copy begins, startedNextCopy() is emitted, with a list of TQNetworkOperations that describe the new copy operation.
.SH "void TQUrlOperator::createdDirectory ( const TQUrlInfo & i, TQNetworkOperation * op )\fC [signal]\fR"
This signal is emitted when mkdir() succeeds and the directory has been created. \fIi\fR holds the information about the new directory.
.PP
\fIop\fR is a pointer to the operation object, which contains all the information about the operation, including the state. \fCop->arg(0)\fR holds the new directory's name.
.PP
See also TQNetworkOperation and TQNetworkProtocol.
.SH "void TQUrlOperator::data ( const TQByteArray & data, TQNetworkOperation * op )\fC [signal]\fR"
This signal is emitted when new \fIdata\fR has been received after calling get() or put(). \fIop\fR is a pointer to the operation object which contains all the information about the operation, including the state. \fCop->arg(0)\fR holds the name of the file whose data is retrieved and op->rawArg(1) holds the (raw) data.
.PP
See also TQNetworkOperation and TQNetworkProtocol.
.SH "void TQUrlOperator::dataTransferProgress ( int bytesDone, int bytesTotal, TQNetworkOperation * op )\fC [signal]\fR"
This signal is emitted during data transfer (using put() or get()). \fIbytesDone\fR specifies how many bytes of \fIbytesTotal\fR have been transferred. More information about the operation is stored in \fIop\fR, a pointer to the network operation that is processed. \fIbytesTotal\fR may be -1, which means that the total number of bytes is not known.
.PP
See also TQNetworkOperation and TQNetworkProtocol.
.SH "void TQUrlOperator::deleteNetworkProtocol ()\fC [protected]\fR"
Deletes the currently used network protocol.
.SH "void TQUrlOperator::finished ( TQNetworkOperation * op )\fC [signal]\fR"
This signal is emitted when an operation of some sort finishes, whether with success or failure. \fIop\fR is a pointer to the operation object, which contains all the information, including the state, of the operation which has been finished. Check the state and error code of the operation object to see whether or not the operation was successful.
.PP
See also TQNetworkOperation and TQNetworkProtocol.
.SH "const TQNetworkOperation * TQUrlOperator::get ( const TQString & location = TQString::null )\fC [virtual]\fR"
Tells the network protocol to get data from \fIlocation\fR or, if this is TQString::null, to get data from the location to which this URL points (see TQUrl::fileName() and TQUrl::encodedPathAndQuery()). What happens then depends on the network protocol. The data() signal is emitted when data comes in. Because it's unlikely that all data will come in at once, it is common for multiple data() signals to be emitted. The dataTransferProgress() signal is emitted while processing the operation. At the end, finished() (with success or failure) is emitted, so check the state of the network operation object to see whether or not the operation was successful.
.PP
If \fIlocation\fR is TQString::null, the path of this TQUrlOperator should point to a file when you use this operation. If \fIlocation\fR is not empty, it can be a relative URL (a child of the path to which the TQUrlOperator points) or an absolute URL.
.PP
For example, to get a web page you might do something like this:
.PP
.nf
.br
    TQUrlOperator op( "http://www.whatever.org/cgi-bin/search.pl?cmd=Hello" );
.br
    op.get();
.br
.fi
.PP
For most other operations, the path of the TQUrlOperator must point to a directory. If you want to download a file you could do the following:
.PP
.nf
.br
    TQUrlOperator op( "ftp://ftp.whatever.org/pub" );
.br
    // do some other stuff like op.listChildren() or op.mkdir( "new_dir" )
.br
    op.get( "a_file.txt" );
.br
.fi
.PP
This will get the data of ftp://ftp.whatever.org/pub/a_file.txt.
.PP
\fINever\fR do anything like this:
.PP
.nf
.br
    TQUrlOperator op( "http://www.whatever.org/cgi-bin" );
.br
    op.get( "search.pl?cmd=Hello" ); // WRONG!
.br
.fi
.PP
If \fIlocation\fR is not empty and relative it must not contain any queries or references, just the name of a child. So if you need to specify a query or reference, do it as shown in the first example or specify the full URL (such as http://www.whatever.org/cgi-bin/search.pl?cmd=Hello) as \fIlocation\fR.
.PP
See also copy().
.SH "void TQUrlOperator::getNetworkProtocol ()\fC [protected]\fR"
Finds a network protocol for the URL and deletes the old network protocol.
.SH "TQUrlInfo TQUrlOperator::info ( const TQString & entry ) const\fC [virtual]\fR"
Returns the URL information for the child \fIentry\fR, or returns an empty TQUrlInfo object if there is no information available about \fIentry\fR. Information about \fIentry\fR is only available after a successfully finished listChildren() operation.
.SH "bool TQUrlOperator::isDir ( bool * ok = 0 )\fC [virtual]\fR"
Returns TRUE if the URL is a directory; otherwise returns FALSE. This may not always work correctly, if the protocol of the URL is something other than file (local filesystem). If you pass a bool pointer as the \fIok\fR argument, \fI*ok\fR is set to TRUE if the result of this function is known to be correct, and to FALSE otherwise.
.SH "void TQUrlOperator::itemChanged ( TQNetworkOperation * op )\fC [signal]\fR"
This signal is emitted whenever a file which is a child of the URL has been changed, for example by successfully calling rename(). \fIop\fR is a pointer to the operation object which contains all the information about the operation, including the state. \fCop->arg(0)\fR holds the original file name and \fCop->arg(1)\fR holds the new file name (if it was changed).
.PP
See also TQNetworkOperation and TQNetworkProtocol.
.SH "const TQNetworkOperation * TQUrlOperator::listChildren ()\fC [virtual]\fR"
Starts listing the children of this URL (e.g. the files in the directory). The start() signal is emitted before the first entry is listed and finished() is emitted after the last one. The newChildren() signal is emitted for each list of new entries. If an error occurs, the signal finished() is emitted, so be sure to check the state of the network operation pointer.
.PP
Because the operation may not be executed immediately, a pointer to the TQNetworkOperation object created by this function is returned. This object contains all the data about the operation and is used to refer to this operation later (e.g. in the signals that are emitted by the TQUrlOperator). The return value can also be 0 if the operation object couldn't be created.
.PP
The path of this TQUrlOperator must to point to a directory (because the children of this directory will be listed), not to a file.
.SH "const TQNetworkOperation * TQUrlOperator::mkdir ( const TQString & dirname )\fC [virtual]\fR"
Tries to create a directory (child) with the name \fIdirname\fR. If it is successful, a newChildren() signal with the new child is emitted, and the createdDirectory() signal with the information about the new child is also emitted. The finished() signal (with success or failure) is emitted after the operation has been processed, so check the state of the network operation object to see whether or not the operation was successful.
.PP
Because the operation will not be executed immediately, a pointer to the TQNetworkOperation object created by this function is returned. This object contains all the data about the operation and is used to refer to this operation later (e.g. in the signals that are emitted by the TQUrlOperator). The return value can also be 0 if the operation object couldn't be created.
.PP
The path of this TQUrlOperator must to point to a directory (not a file) because the new directory will be created in this path.
.SH "TQString TQUrlOperator::nameFilter () const"
Returns the name filter of the URL.
.PP
See also TQUrlOperator::setNameFilter() and TQDir::nameFilter().
.SH "void TQUrlOperator::newChildren ( const TQValueList<TQUrlInfo> & i, TQNetworkOperation * op )\fC [signal]\fR"
This signal is emitted after listChildren() was called and new children (i.e. files) have been read from a list of files. \fIi\fR holds the information about the new files. \fIop\fR is a pointer to the operation object which contains all the information about the operation, including the state.
.PP
See also TQNetworkOperation and TQNetworkProtocol.
.SH "const TQNetworkOperation * TQUrlOperator::put ( const TQByteArray & data, const TQString & location = TQString::null )\fC [virtual]\fR"
This function tells the network protocol to put \fIdata\fR in \fIlocation\fR. If \fIlocation\fR is empty (TQString::null), it puts the \fIdata\fR in the location to which the URL points. What happens depends on the network protocol. Depending on the network protocol, some data might come back after putting data, in which case the data() signal is emitted. The dataTransferProgress() signal is emitted during processing of the operation. At the end, finished() (with success or failure) is emitted, so check the state of the network operation object to see whether or not the operation was successful.
.PP
If \fIlocation\fR is TQString::null, the path of this TQUrlOperator should point to a file when you use this operation. If \fIlocation\fR is not empty, it can be a relative (a child of the path to which the TQUrlOperator points) or an absolute URL.
.PP
For putting some data to a file you can do the following:
.PP
.nf
.br
    TQUrlOperator op( "ftp://ftp.whatever.com/home/me/filename.dat" );
.br
    op.put( data );
.br
.fi
.PP
For most other operations, the path of the TQUrlOperator must point to a directory. If you want to upload data to a file you could do the following:
.PP
.nf
.br
    TQUrlOperator op( "ftp://ftp.whatever.com/home/me" );
.br
    // do some other stuff like op.listChildren() or op.mkdir( "new_dir" )
.br
    op.put( data, "filename.dat" );
.br
.fi
.PP
This will upload the data to ftp://ftp.whatever.com/home/me/filename.dat.
.PP
See also copy().
.SH "const TQNetworkOperation * TQUrlOperator::remove ( const TQString & filename )\fC [virtual]\fR"
Tries to remove the file (child) \fIfilename\fR. If it succeeds the removed() signal is emitted. finished() (with success or failure) is also emitted after the operation has been processed, so check the state of the network operation object to see whether or not the operation was successful.
.PP
Because the operation will not be executed immediately, a pointer to the TQNetworkOperation object created by this function is returned. This object contains all the data about the operation and is used to refer to this operation later (e.g. in the signals that are emitted by the TQUrlOperator). The return value can also be 0 if the operation object couldn't be created.
.PP
The path of this TQUrlOperator must point to a directory; because if \fIfilename\fR is relative, it will try to remove it in this directory.
.SH "void TQUrlOperator::removed ( TQNetworkOperation * op )\fC [signal]\fR"
This signal is emitted when remove() has been succesful and the file has been removed.
.PP
\fIop\fR is a pointer to the operation object which contains all the information about the operation, including the state. \fCop->arg(0)\fR holds the name of the file that was removed.
.PP
See also TQNetworkOperation and TQNetworkProtocol.
.SH "const TQNetworkOperation * TQUrlOperator::rename ( const TQString & oldname, const TQString & newname )\fC [virtual]\fR"
Tries to rename the file (child) called \fIoldname\fR to \fInewname\fR. If it succeeds, the itemChanged() signal is emitted. finished() (with success or failure) is also emitted after the operation has been processed, so check the state of the network operation object to see whether or not the operation was successful.
.PP
Because the operation may not be executed immediately, a pointer to the TQNetworkOperation object created by this function is returned. This object contains all the data about the operation and is used to refer to this operation later (e.g. in the signals that are emitted by the TQUrlOperator). The return value can also be 0 if the operation object couldn't be created.
.PP
This path of this TQUrlOperator must to point to a directory because \fIoldname\fR and \fInewname\fR are handled relative to this directory.
.SH "void TQUrlOperator::setNameFilter ( const TQString & nameFilter )\fC [virtual]\fR"
Sets the name filter of the URL to \fInameFilter\fR.
.PP
See also TQDir::setNameFilter().
.SH "void TQUrlOperator::start ( TQNetworkOperation * op )\fC [signal]\fR"
Some operations (such as listChildren()) emit this signal when they start processing the operation. \fIop\fR is a pointer to the operation object which contains all the information about the operation, including the state.
.PP
See also TQNetworkOperation and TQNetworkProtocol.
.SH "void TQUrlOperator::startedNextCopy ( const TQPtrList<TQNetworkOperation> & lst )\fC [signal]\fR"
This signal is emitted if copy() starts a new copy operation. \fIlst\fR contains all TQNetworkOperations related to this copy operation.
.PP
See also copy().
.SH "void TQUrlOperator::stop ()\fC [virtual]\fR"
Stops the current network operation and removes all this TQUrlOperator's waiting network operations.
.SH RELATED FUNCTION DOCUMENTATION
.SH "void tqInitNetworkProtocols ()"
This function registers the network protocols for FTP and HTTP. You must call this function before you use TQUrlOperator for these protocols.
.PP
This function is declared in tqnetwork.h.

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR http://doc.trolltech.com/tqurloperator.html
.BR http://www.trolltech.com/faq/tech.html
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright 1992-2007 Trolltech ASA, http://www.trolltech.com.  See the
license file included in the distribution for a complete license
statement.
.SH AUTHOR
Generated automatically from the source code.
.SH BUGS
If you find a bug in Qt, please report it as described in
.BR http://doc.trolltech.com/bughowto.html .
Good bug reports help us to help you. Thank you.
.P
The definitive TQt documentation is provided in HTML format; it is
located at $TQTDIR/doc/html and can be read using TQt Assistant or with
a web browser. This man page is provided as a convenience for those
users who prefer man pages, although this format is not officially
supported by Trolltech. 
.P
If you find errors in this manual page, please report them to
.BR qt-bugs@trolltech.com .
Please include the name of the manual page (tqurloperator.3qt) and the Qt
version (3.3.8).
