'\" t
.TH TQVariant 3qt "2 February 2007" "Trolltech AS" \" -*- nroff -*-
.\" Copyright 1992-2007 Trolltech ASA.  All rights reserved.  See the
.\" license file included in the distribution for a complete license
.\" statement.
.\"
.ad l
.nh
.SH NAME
TQVariant \- Acts like a union for the most common TQt data types
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fC#include <tqvariant.h>\fR
.PP
.SS "Public Members"
.in +1c
.ti -1c
.BI "enum \fBType\fR { Invalid, Map, List, String, StringList, Font, Pixmap, Brush, Rect, Size, Color, Palette, ColorGroup, IconSet, Point, Image, Int, UInt, Bool, Double, CString, PointArray, Region, Bitmap, Cursor, SizePolicy, Date, Time, DateTime, ByteArray, BitArray, KeySequence, Pen, LongLong, ULongLong }"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "\fBTQVariant\fR ()"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "\fB~TQVariant\fR ()"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "\fBTQVariant\fR ( const TQVariant & p )"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "\fBTQVariant\fR ( TQDataStream & s )"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "\fBTQVariant\fR ( const TQString & val )"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "\fBTQVariant\fR ( const TQCString & val )"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "\fBTQVariant\fR ( const char * val )"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "\fBTQVariant\fR ( const TQStringList & val )"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "\fBTQVariant\fR ( const TQFont & val )"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "\fBTQVariant\fR ( const TQPixmap & val )"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "\fBTQVariant\fR ( const TQImage & val )"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "\fBTQVariant\fR ( const TQBrush & val )"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "\fBTQVariant\fR ( const TQPoint & val )"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "\fBTQVariant\fR ( const TQRect & val )"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "\fBTQVariant\fR ( const TQSize & val )"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "\fBTQVariant\fR ( const TQColor & val )"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "\fBTQVariant\fR ( const TQPalette & val )"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "\fBTQVariant\fR ( const TQColorGroup & val )"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "\fBTQVariant\fR ( const TQIconSet & val )"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "\fBTQVariant\fR ( const TQPointArray & val )"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "\fBTQVariant\fR ( const TQRegion & val )"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "\fBTQVariant\fR ( const TQBitmap & val )"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "\fBTQVariant\fR ( const TQCursor & val )"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "\fBTQVariant\fR ( const TQDate & val )"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "\fBTQVariant\fR ( const TQTime & val )"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "\fBTQVariant\fR ( const TQDateTime & val )"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "\fBTQVariant\fR ( const TQByteArray & val )"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "\fBTQVariant\fR ( const TQBitArray & val )"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "\fBTQVariant\fR ( const TQKeySequence & val )"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "\fBTQVariant\fR ( const TQPen & val )"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "\fBTQVariant\fR ( const TQValueList<TQVariant> & val )"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "\fBTQVariant\fR ( const TQMap<TQString, TQVariant> & val )"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "\fBTQVariant\fR ( int val )"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "\fBTQVariant\fR ( uint val )"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "\fBTQVariant\fR ( TQ_LLONG val )"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "\fBTQVariant\fR ( TQ_ULLONG val )"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "\fBTQVariant\fR ( bool val, int )"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "\fBTQVariant\fR ( double val )"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "\fBTQVariant\fR ( TQSizePolicy val )"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "TQVariant & \fBoperator=\fR ( const TQVariant & variant )"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "bool \fBoperator==\fR ( const TQVariant & v ) const"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "bool \fBoperator!=\fR ( const TQVariant & v ) const"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "Type \fBtype\fR () const"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "const char * \fBtypeName\fR () const"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "bool \fBcanCast\fR ( Type t ) const"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "bool \fBcast\fR ( Type t )"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "bool \fBisValid\fR () const"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "bool \fBisNull\fR () const"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "void \fBclear\fR ()"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "const TQString \fBtoString\fR () const"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "const TQCString \fBtoCString\fR () const"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "const TQStringList \fBtoStringList\fR () const"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "const TQFont \fBtoFont\fR () const"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "const TQPixmap \fBtoPixmap\fR () const"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "const TQImage \fBtoImage\fR () const"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "const TQBrush \fBtoBrush\fR () const"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "const TQPoint \fBtoPoint\fR () const"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "const TQRect \fBtoRect\fR () const"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "const TQSize \fBtoSize\fR () const"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "const TQColor \fBtoColor\fR () const"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "const TQPalette \fBtoPalette\fR () const"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "const TQColorGroup \fBtoColorGroup\fR () const"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "const TQIconSet \fBtoIconSet\fR () const"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "const TQPointArray \fBtoPointArray\fR () const"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "const TQBitmap \fBtoBitmap\fR () const"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "const TQRegion \fBtoRegion\fR () const"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "const TQCursor \fBtoCursor\fR () const"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "const TQDate \fBtoDate\fR () const"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "const TQTime \fBtoTime\fR () const"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "const TQDateTime \fBtoDateTime\fR () const"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "const TQByteArray \fBtoByteArray\fR () const"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "const TQBitArray \fBtoBitArray\fR () const"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "const TQKeySequence \fBtoKeySequence\fR () const"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "const TQPen \fBtoPen\fR () const"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "int \fBtoInt\fR ( bool * ok = 0 ) const"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "uint \fBtoUInt\fR ( bool * ok = 0 ) const"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "TQ_LLONG \fBtoLongLong\fR ( bool * ok = 0 ) const"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "TQ_ULLONG \fBtoULongLong\fR ( bool * ok = 0 ) const"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "bool \fBtoBool\fR () const"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "double \fBtoDouble\fR ( bool * ok = 0 ) const"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "const TQValueList<TQVariant> \fBtoList\fR () const"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "const TQMap<TQString, TQVariant> \fBtoMap\fR () const"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "TQSizePolicy \fBtoSizePolicy\fR () const"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "TQValueListConstIterator<TQString> stringListBegin () const  \fI(obsolete)\fR"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "TQValueListConstIterator<TQString> stringListEnd () const  \fI(obsolete)\fR"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "TQValueListConstIterator<TQVariant> listBegin () const  \fI(obsolete)\fR"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "TQValueListConstIterator<TQVariant> listEnd () const  \fI(obsolete)\fR"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "TQMapConstIterator<TQString, TQVariant> mapBegin () const  \fI(obsolete)\fR"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "TQMapConstIterator<TQString, TQVariant> mapEnd () const  \fI(obsolete)\fR"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "TQMapConstIterator<TQString, TQVariant> mapFind ( const TQString & key ) const  \fI(obsolete)\fR"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "TQString & \fBasString\fR ()"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "TQCString & \fBasCString\fR ()"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "TQStringList & \fBasStringList\fR ()"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "TQFont & \fBasFont\fR ()"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "TQPixmap & \fBasPixmap\fR ()"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "TQImage & \fBasImage\fR ()"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "TQBrush & \fBasBrush\fR ()"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "TQPoint & \fBasPoint\fR ()"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "TQRect & \fBasRect\fR ()"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "TQSize & \fBasSize\fR ()"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "TQColor & \fBasColor\fR ()"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "TQPalette & \fBasPalette\fR ()"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "TQColorGroup & \fBasColorGroup\fR ()"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "TQIconSet & \fBasIconSet\fR ()"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "TQPointArray & \fBasPointArray\fR ()"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "TQBitmap & \fBasBitmap\fR ()"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "TQRegion & \fBasRegion\fR ()"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "TQCursor & \fBasCursor\fR ()"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "TQDate & \fBasDate\fR ()"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "TQTime & \fBasTime\fR ()"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "TQDateTime & \fBasDateTime\fR ()"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "TQByteArray & \fBasByteArray\fR ()"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "TQBitArray & \fBasBitArray\fR ()"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "TQKeySequence & \fBasKeySequence\fR ()"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "TQPen & \fBasPen\fR ()"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "int & \fBasInt\fR ()"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "uint & \fBasUInt\fR ()"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "TQ_LLONG & \fBasLongLong\fR ()"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "TQ_ULLONG & \fBasULongLong\fR ()"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "bool & \fBasBool\fR ()"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "double & \fBasDouble\fR ()"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "TQValueList<TQVariant> & \fBasList\fR ()"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "TQMap<TQString, TQVariant> & \fBasMap\fR ()"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "TQSizePolicy & \fBasSizePolicy\fR ()"
.br
.in -1c
.SS "Static Public Members"
.in +1c
.ti -1c
.BI "const char * \fBtypeToName\fR ( Type typ )"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "Type \fBnameToType\fR ( const char * name )"
.br
.in -1c
.SH DESCRIPTION
The TQVariant class acts like a union for the most common TQt data types.
.PP
Because C++ forbids unions from including types that have non-default constructors or destructors, most interesting TQt classes cannot be used in unions. Without TQVariant, this would be a problem for TQObject::property() and for database work, etc.
.PP
A TQVariant object holds a single value of a single type() at a time. (Some type()s are multi-valued, for example a string list.) You can find out what type, T, the variant holds, convert it to a different type using one of the asT() functions, e.g. asSize(), get its value using one of the toT() functions, e.g. toSize(), and check whether the type can be converted to a particular type using canCast().
.PP
The methods named toT() (for any supported T, see the Type documentation for a list) are const. If you ask for the stored type, they return a copy of the stored object. If you ask for a type that can be generated from the stored type, toT() copies and converts and leaves the object itself unchanged. If you ask for a type that cannot be generated from the stored type, the result depends on the type (see the function documentation for details).
.PP
Note that three data types supported by TQVariant are explicitly shared, namely TQImage, TQPointArray, and TQCString, and in these cases the toT() methods return a shallow copy. In almost all cases you must make a deep copy of the returned values before modifying them.
.PP
The asT() functions are not const. They do conversion like the toT() methods, set the variant to hold the converted value, and return a reference to the new contents of the variant.
.PP
Here is some example code to demonstrate the use of TQVariant:
.PP
.nf
.br
    TQDataStream out(...);
.br
    TQVariant v(123);          // The variant now contains an int
.br
    int x = v.toInt();        // x = 123
.br
    out << v;                 // Writes a type tag and an int to out
.br
    v = TQVariant("hello");    // The variant now contains a TQCString
.br
    v = TQVariant(tr("hello"));// The variant now contains a TQString
.br
    int y = v.toInt();        // y = 0 since v cannot be converted to an int
.br
    TQString s = v.toString(); // s = tr("hello")  (see TQObject::tr())
.br
    out << v;                 // Writes a type tag and a TQString to out
.br
    ...
.br
    TQDataStream in(...);      // (opening the previously written stream)
.br
    in >> v;                  // Reads an Int variant
.br
    int z = v.toInt();        // z = 123
.br
    tqDebug("Type is %s",      // prints "Type is int"
.br
            v.typeName());
.br
    v.asInt() += 100;         // The variant now hold the value 223.
.br
    v = TQVariant( TQStringList() );
.br
    v.asStringList().append( "Hello" );
.br
.fi
.PP
You can even store TQValueList<TQVariant>s and TQMap<TQString,TQVariant>s in a variant, so you can easily construct arbitrarily complex data structures of arbitrary types. This is very powerful and versatile, but may prove less memory and speed efficient than storing specific types in standard data structures.
.PP
TQVariant also supports the notion of NULL values, where you have a defined type with no value set.
.PP
.nf
.br
    TQVariant x, y( TQString() ), z( TQString("") );
.br
    x.asInt();
.br
    // x.isNull() == TRUE, y.isNull() == TRUE, z.isNull() == FALSE
.br
.fi
.PP
See the Collection Classes.
.PP
See also Miscellaneous Classes and Object Model.
.SS "Member Type Documentation"
.SH "TQVariant::Type"
This enum type defines the types of variable that a TQVariant can contain.
.TP
\fCTQVariant::Invalid\fR - no type
.TP
\fCTQVariant::BitArray\fR - a TQBitArray
.TP
\fCTQVariant::ByteArray\fR - a TQByteArray
.TP
\fCTQVariant::Bitmap\fR - a TQBitmap
.TP
\fCTQVariant::Bool\fR - a bool
.TP
\fCTQVariant::Brush\fR - a TQBrush
.TP
\fCTQVariant::Color\fR - a TQColor
.TP
\fCTQVariant::ColorGroup\fR - a TQColorGroup
.TP
\fCTQVariant::Cursor\fR - a TQCursor
.TP
\fCTQVariant::Date\fR - a TQDate
.TP
\fCTQVariant::DateTime\fR - a TQDateTime
.TP
\fCTQVariant::Double\fR - a double
.TP
\fCTQVariant::Font\fR - a TQFont
.TP
\fCTQVariant::IconSet\fR - a TQIconSet
.TP
\fCTQVariant::Image\fR - a TQImage
.TP
\fCTQVariant::Int\fR - an int
.TP
\fCTQVariant::KeySequence\fR - a TQKeySequence
.TP
\fCTQVariant::List\fR - a TQValueList<TQVariant>
.TP
\fCTQVariant::LongLong\fR - a long long
.TP
\fCTQVariant::ULongLong\fR - an unsigned long long
.TP
\fCTQVariant::Map\fR - a TQMap<TQString,TQVariant>
.TP
\fCTQVariant::Palette\fR - a TQPalette
.TP
\fCTQVariant::Pen\fR - a TQPen
.TP
\fCTQVariant::Pixmap\fR - a TQPixmap
.TP
\fCTQVariant::Point\fR - a TQPoint
.TP
\fCTQVariant::PointArray\fR - a TQPointArray
.TP
\fCTQVariant::Rect\fR - a TQRect
.TP
\fCTQVariant::Region\fR - a TQRegion
.TP
\fCTQVariant::Size\fR - a TQSize
.TP
\fCTQVariant::SizePolicy\fR - a TQSizePolicy
.TP
\fCTQVariant::String\fR - a TQString
.TP
\fCTQVariant::CString\fR - a TQCString
.TP
\fCTQVariant::StringList\fR - a TQStringList
.TP
\fCTQVariant::Time\fR - a TQTime
.TP
\fCTQVariant::UInt\fR - an unsigned int
.PP
Note that Qt's definition of bool depends on the compiler. tqglobal.h has the system-dependent definition of bool.
.SH MEMBER FUNCTION DOCUMENTATION
.SH "TQVariant::TQVariant ()"
Constructs an invalid variant.
.SH "TQVariant::TQVariant ( bool val, int )"
Constructs a new variant with a boolean value, \fIval\fR. The integer argument is a dummy, necessary for compatibility with some compilers.
.SH "TQVariant::TQVariant ( double val )"
Constructs a new variant with a floating point value, \fIval\fR.
.SH "TQVariant::TQVariant ( TQSizePolicy val )"
Constructs a new variant with a size policy value, \fIval\fR.
.SH "TQVariant::TQVariant ( const TQVariant & p )"
Constructs a copy of the variant, \fIp\fR, passed as the argument to this constructor. Usually this is a deep copy, but a shallow copy is made if the stored data type is explicitly shared, as e.g. TQImage is.
.SH "TQVariant::TQVariant ( TQDataStream & s )"
Reads the variant from the data stream, \fIs\fR.
.SH "TQVariant::TQVariant ( const TQString & val )"
Constructs a new variant with a string value, \fIval\fR.
.SH "TQVariant::TQVariant ( const TQCString & val )"
Constructs a new variant with a C-string value, \fIval\fR.
.PP
If you want to modify the TQCString after you've passed it to this constructor, we recommend passing a deep copy (see TQCString::copy()).
.SH "TQVariant::TQVariant ( const char * val )"
Constructs a new variant with a C-string value of \fIval\fR if \fIval\fR is non-null. The variant creates a deep copy of \fIval\fR.
.PP
If \fIval\fR is null, the resulting variant has type Invalid.
.SH "TQVariant::TQVariant ( const TQStringList & val )"
Constructs a new variant with a string list value, \fIval\fR.
.SH "TQVariant::TQVariant ( const TQFont & val )"
Constructs a new variant with a font value, \fIval\fR.
.SH "TQVariant::TQVariant ( const TQPixmap & val )"
Constructs a new variant with a pixmap value, \fIval\fR.
.SH "TQVariant::TQVariant ( const TQImage & val )"
Constructs a new variant with an image value, \fIval\fR.
.PP
Because TQImage is explicitly shared, you may need to pass a deep copy to the variant using TQImage::copy(), e.g. if you intend changing the image you've passed later on.
.SH "TQVariant::TQVariant ( const TQBrush & val )"
Constructs a new variant with a brush value, \fIval\fR.
.SH "TQVariant::TQVariant ( const TQPoint & val )"
Constructs a new variant with a point value, \fIval\fR.
.SH "TQVariant::TQVariant ( const TQRect & val )"
Constructs a new variant with a rect value, \fIval\fR.
.SH "TQVariant::TQVariant ( const TQSize & val )"
Constructs a new variant with a size value, \fIval\fR.
.SH "TQVariant::TQVariant ( const TQColor & val )"
Constructs a new variant with a color value, \fIval\fR.
.SH "TQVariant::TQVariant ( const TQPalette & val )"
Constructs a new variant with a color palette value, \fIval\fR.
.SH "TQVariant::TQVariant ( const TQColorGroup & val )"
Constructs a new variant with a color group value, \fIval\fR.
.SH "TQVariant::TQVariant ( const TQIconSet & val )"
Constructs a new variant with an icon set value, \fIval\fR.
.SH "TQVariant::TQVariant ( const TQPointArray & val )"
Constructs a new variant with a point array value, \fIval\fR.
.PP
Because TQPointArray is explicitly shared, you may need to pass a deep copy to the variant using TQPointArray::copy(), e.g. if you intend changing the point array you've passed later on.
.SH "TQVariant::TQVariant ( const TQRegion & val )"
Constructs a new variant with a region value, \fIval\fR.
.SH "TQVariant::TQVariant ( const TQBitmap & val )"
Constructs a new variant with a bitmap value, \fIval\fR.
.SH "TQVariant::TQVariant ( const TQCursor & val )"
Constructs a new variant with a cursor value, \fIval\fR.
.SH "TQVariant::TQVariant ( const TQDate & val )"
Constructs a new variant with a date value, \fIval\fR.
.SH "TQVariant::TQVariant ( const TQTime & val )"
Constructs a new variant with a time value, \fIval\fR.
.SH "TQVariant::TQVariant ( const TQDateTime & val )"
Constructs a new variant with a date/time value, \fIval\fR.
.SH "TQVariant::TQVariant ( const TQByteArray & val )"
Constructs a new variant with a bytearray value, \fIval\fR.
.SH "TQVariant::TQVariant ( const TQBitArray & val )"
Constructs a new variant with a bitarray value, \fIval\fR.
.SH "TQVariant::TQVariant ( const TQKeySequence & val )"
Constructs a new variant with a key sequence value, \fIval\fR.
.SH "TQVariant::TQVariant ( const TQPen & val )"
Constructs a new variant with a pen value, \fIval\fR.
.SH "TQVariant::TQVariant ( const TQValueList<TQVariant> & val )"
Constructs a new variant with a list value, \fIval\fR.
.SH "TQVariant::TQVariant ( const TQMap<TQString, TQVariant> & val )"
Constructs a new variant with a map of TQVariants, \fIval\fR.
.SH "TQVariant::TQVariant ( int val )"
Constructs a new variant with an integer value, \fIval\fR.
.SH "TQVariant::TQVariant ( uint val )"
Constructs a new variant with an unsigned integer value, \fIval\fR.
.SH "TQVariant::TQVariant ( TQ_LLONG val )"
Constructs a new variant with a long long integer value, \fIval\fR.
.SH "TQVariant::TQVariant ( TQ_ULLONG val )"
Constructs a new variant with an unsigned long long integer value, \fIval\fR.
.SH "TQVariant::~TQVariant ()"
Destroys the TQVariant and the contained object.
.PP
Note that subclasses that reimplement clear() should reimplement the destructor to call clear(). This destructor calls clear(), but because it is the destructor, TQVariant::clear() is called rather than a subclass's clear().
.SH "TQBitArray & TQVariant::asBitArray ()"
Tries to convert the variant to hold a TQBitArray value. If that is not possible then the variant is set to an empty bitarray.
.PP
Returns a reference to the stored bitarray.
.PP
See also toBitArray().
.SH "TQBitmap & TQVariant::asBitmap ()"
Tries to convert the variant to hold a bitmap value. If that is not possible the variant is set to a null bitmap.
.PP
Returns a reference to the stored bitmap.
.PP
See also toBitmap().
.SH "bool & TQVariant::asBool ()"
Returns the variant's value as bool reference.
.SH "TQBrush & TQVariant::asBrush ()"
Tries to convert the variant to hold a brush value. If that is not possible the variant is set to a default black brush.
.PP
Returns a reference to the stored brush.
.PP
See also toBrush().
.SH "TQByteArray & TQVariant::asByteArray ()"
Tries to convert the variant to hold a TQByteArray value. If that is not possible then the variant is set to an empty bytearray.
.PP
Returns a reference to the stored bytearray.
.PP
See also toByteArray().
.SH "TQCString & TQVariant::asCString ()"
Tries to convert the variant to hold a string value. If that is not possible the variant is set to an empty string.
.PP
Returns a reference to the stored string.
.PP
See also toCString().
.SH "TQColor & TQVariant::asColor ()"
Tries to convert the variant to hold a TQColor value. If that is not possible the variant is set to an invalid color.
.PP
Returns a reference to the stored color.
.PP
See also toColor() and TQColor::isValid().
.SH "TQColorGroup & TQVariant::asColorGroup ()"
Tries to convert the variant to hold a TQColorGroup value. If that is not possible the variant is set to a color group of all black colors.
.PP
Returns a reference to the stored color group.
.PP
See also toColorGroup().
.SH "TQCursor & TQVariant::asCursor ()"
Tries to convert the variant to hold a TQCursor value. If that is not possible the variant is set to a default arrow cursor.
.PP
Returns a reference to the stored cursor.
.PP
See also toCursor().
.SH "TQDate & TQVariant::asDate ()"
Tries to convert the variant to hold a TQDate value. If that is not possible then the variant is set to an invalid date.
.PP
Returns a reference to the stored date.
.PP
See also toDate().
.SH "TQDateTime & TQVariant::asDateTime ()"
Tries to convert the variant to hold a TQDateTime value. If that is not possible then the variant is set to an invalid date/time.
.PP
Returns a reference to the stored date/time.
.PP
See also toDateTime().
.SH "double & TQVariant::asDouble ()"
Returns the variant's value as double reference.
.SH "TQFont & TQVariant::asFont ()"
Tries to convert the variant to hold a TQFont. If that is not possible the variant is set to the application's default font.
.PP
Returns a reference to the stored font.
.PP
See also toFont().
.SH "TQIconSet & TQVariant::asIconSet ()"
Tries to convert the variant to hold a TQIconSet value. If that is not possible the variant is set to an empty iconset.
.PP
Returns a reference to the stored iconset.
.PP
See also toIconSet().
.SH "TQImage & TQVariant::asImage ()"
Tries to convert the variant to hold an image value. If that is not possible the variant is set to a null image.
.PP
Returns a reference to the stored image.
.PP
See also toImage().
.SH "int & TQVariant::asInt ()"
Returns the variant's value as int reference.
.SH "TQKeySequence & TQVariant::asKeySequence ()"
Tries to convert the variant to hold a TQKeySequence value. If that is not possible then the variant is set to an empty key sequence.
.PP
Returns a reference to the stored key sequence.
.PP
See also toKeySequence().
.SH "TQValueList<TQVariant> & TQVariant::asList ()"
Returns the variant's value as variant list reference.
.PP
Note that if you want to iterate over the list, you should iterate over a copy, e.g.
.PP
.nf
.br
    TQValueList<TQVariant> list = myVariant.asList();
.br
    TQValueList<TQVariant>::Iterator it = list.begin();
.br
    while( it != list.end() ) {
.br
        myProcessing( *it );
.br
        ++it;
.br
    }
.br
.fi
.SH "TQ_LLONG & TQVariant::asLongLong ()"
Returns the variant's value as long long reference.
.SH "TQMap<TQString, TQVariant> & TQVariant::asMap ()"
Returns the variant's value as variant map reference.
.PP
Note that if you want to iterate over the map, you should iterate over a copy, e.g.
.PP
.nf
.br
    TQMap<TQString, TQVariant> map = myVariant.asMap();
.br
    TQMap<TQString, TQVariant>::Iterator it = map.begin();
.br
    while( it != map.end() ) {
.br
        myProcessing( *it );
.br
        ++it;
.br
    }
.br
.fi
.SH "TQPalette & TQVariant::asPalette ()"
Tries to convert the variant to hold a TQPalette value. If that is not possible the variant is set to a palette of black colors.
.PP
Returns a reference to the stored palette.
.PP
See also toString().
.SH "TQPen & TQVariant::asPen ()"
Tries to convert the variant to hold a TQPen value. If that is not possible then the variant is set to an empty pen.
.PP
Returns a reference to the stored pen.
.PP
See also toPen().
.SH "TQPixmap & TQVariant::asPixmap ()"
Tries to convert the variant to hold a pixmap value. If that is not possible the variant is set to a null pixmap.
.PP
Returns a reference to the stored pixmap.
.PP
See also toPixmap().
.SH "TQPoint & TQVariant::asPoint ()"
Tries to convert the variant to hold a point value. If that is not possible the variant is set to a (0, 0) point.
.PP
Returns a reference to the stored point.
.PP
See also toPoint().
.SH "TQPointArray & TQVariant::asPointArray ()"
Tries to convert the variant to hold a TQPointArray value. If that is not possible the variant is set to an empty point array.
.PP
Returns a reference to the stored point array.
.PP
See also toPointArray().
.SH "TQRect & TQVariant::asRect ()"
Tries to convert the variant to hold a rectangle value. If that is not possible the variant is set to an empty rectangle.
.PP
Returns a reference to the stored rectangle.
.PP
See also toRect().
.SH "TQRegion & TQVariant::asRegion ()"
Tries to convert the variant to hold a TQRegion value. If that is not possible the variant is set to a null region.
.PP
Returns a reference to the stored region.
.PP
See also toRegion().
.SH "TQSize & TQVariant::asSize ()"
Tries to convert the variant to hold a TQSize value. If that is not possible the variant is set to an invalid size.
.PP
Returns a reference to the stored size.
.PP
See also toSize() and TQSize::isValid().
.SH "TQSizePolicy & TQVariant::asSizePolicy ()"
Tries to convert the variant to hold a TQSizePolicy value. If that fails, the variant is set to an arbitrary (valid) size policy.
.SH "TQString & TQVariant::asString ()"
Tries to convert the variant to hold a string value. If that is not possible the variant is set to an empty string.
.PP
Returns a reference to the stored string.
.PP
See also toString().
.SH "TQStringList & TQVariant::asStringList ()"
Tries to convert the variant to hold a TQStringList value. If that is not possible the variant is set to an empty string list.
.PP
Returns a reference to the stored string list.
.PP
Note that if you want to iterate over the list, you should iterate over a copy, e.g.
.PP
.nf
.br
    TQStringList list = myVariant.asStringList();
.br
    TQStringList::Iterator it = list.begin();
.br
    while( it != list.end() ) {
.br
        myProcessing( *it );
.br
        ++it;
.br
    }
.br
.fi
.PP
See also toStringList().
.SH "TQTime & TQVariant::asTime ()"
Tries to convert the variant to hold a TQTime value. If that is not possible then the variant is set to an invalid time.
.PP
Returns a reference to the stored time.
.PP
See also toTime().
.SH "uint & TQVariant::asUInt ()"
Returns the variant's value as unsigned int reference.
.SH "TQ_ULLONG & TQVariant::asULongLong ()"
Returns the variant's value as unsigned long long reference.
.SH "bool TQVariant::canCast ( Type t ) const"
Returns TRUE if the variant's type can be cast to the requested type, \fIt\fR. Such casting is done automatically when calling the toInt(), toBool(), ... or asInt(), asBool(), ... methods.
.PP
The following casts are done automatically: <center>.nf
.TS
l - l. Type Automatically Cast To Bool Double, Int, UInt, LongLong, ULongLong, String, CString, ByteArray Color String. CString. ByteArray Date String, CString, ByteArray, DateTime DateTime String, CString, ByteArray, Date, Time Double String, CString, ByteArray, Int, Bool, UInt, LongLong, ULongLong Font String, CString, ByteArray Int String, CString, ByteArray, Double, Bool, UInt, LongLong, ULongLong, KeySequence LongLong String, CString, ByteArray, Double, Bool, UInt, LongLong, ULongLong, KeySequence ULongLong String, CString, ByteArray, Double, Bool, UInt, LongLong, ULongLong, KeySequence List StringList (if the list contains only strings or something that can be cast to a string) String CString, ByteArray, CString, Int, UInt, Bool, Double, Date, Time, DateTime, KeySequence, Font, Color CString String, ByteArray, Int, UInt, Bool, Double, Date, ULongLong, LongLong ByteArray String, CString, Int, UInt, Bool, Double, Date, ULongLong, LongLong StringList List Time String Int String, CString, ByteArray, Double, Bool, UInt, LongLong, ULongLong, KeySequence KeySequence
.TE
.fi
</center>
.SH "bool TQVariant::cast ( Type t )"
Casts the variant to the requested type. If the cast cannot be done, the variant is set to the default value of the requested type (e.g. an empty string if the requested type \fIt\fR is TQVariant::String, an empty point array if the requested type \fIt\fR is TQVariant::PointArray, etc). Returns TRUE if the current type of the variant was successfully cast; otherwise returns FALSE.
.PP
See also canCast().
.SH "void TQVariant::clear ()"
Convert this variant to type Invalid and free up any resources used.
.SH "bool TQVariant::isNull () const"
Returns TRUE if this is a NULL variant, FALSE otherwise.
.SH "bool TQVariant::isValid () const"
Returns TRUE if the storage type of this variant is not TQVariant::Invalid; otherwise returns FALSE.
.SH "TQValueListConstIterator<TQVariant> TQVariant::listBegin () const"
\fBThis function is obsolete.\fR It is provided to keep old source working. We strongly advise against using it in new code.
.PP
Returns an iterator to the first item in the list if the variant's type is appropriate; otherwise returns a null iterator.
.SH "TQValueListConstIterator<TQVariant> TQVariant::listEnd () const"
\fBThis function is obsolete.\fR It is provided to keep old source working. We strongly advise against using it in new code.
.PP
Returns the end iterator for the list if the variant's type is appropriate; otherwise returns a null iterator.
.SH "TQMapConstIterator<TQString, TQVariant> TQVariant::mapBegin () const"
\fBThis function is obsolete.\fR It is provided to keep old source working. We strongly advise against using it in new code.
.PP
Returns an iterator to the first item in the map, if the variant's type is appropriate; otherwise returns a null iterator.
.SH "TQMapConstIterator<TQString, TQVariant> TQVariant::mapEnd () const"
\fBThis function is obsolete.\fR It is provided to keep old source working. We strongly advise against using it in new code.
.PP
Returns the end iterator for the map, if the variant's type is appropriate; otherwise returns a null iterator.
.SH "TQMapConstIterator<TQString, TQVariant> TQVariant::mapFind ( const TQString & key ) const"
\fBThis function is obsolete.\fR It is provided to keep old source working. We strongly advise against using it in new code.
.PP
Returns an iterator to the item in the map with \fIkey\fR as key, if the variant's type is appropriate and \fIkey\fR is a valid key; otherwise returns a null iterator.
.SH "Type TQVariant::nameToType ( const char * name )\fC [static]\fR"
Converts the string representation of the storage type given in \fIname\fR, to its enum representation.
.PP
If the string representation cannot be converted to any enum representation, the variant is set to Invalid.
.SH "bool TQVariant::operator!= ( const TQVariant & v ) const"
Compares this TQVariant with \fIv\fR and returns TRUE if they are not equal; otherwise returns FALSE.
.SH "TQVariant & TQVariant::operator= ( const TQVariant & variant )"
Assigns the value of the variant \fIvariant\fR to this variant.
.PP
This is a deep copy of the variant, but note that if the variant holds an explicitly shared type such as TQImage, a shallow copy is performed.
.SH "bool TQVariant::operator== ( const TQVariant & v ) const"
Compares this TQVariant with \fIv\fR and returns TRUE if they are equal; otherwise returns FALSE.
.SH "TQValueListConstIterator<TQString> TQVariant::stringListBegin () const"
\fBThis function is obsolete.\fR It is provided to keep old source working. We strongly advise against using it in new code.
.PP
Returns an iterator to the first string in the list if the variant's type is StringList; otherwise returns a null iterator.
.SH "TQValueListConstIterator<TQString> TQVariant::stringListEnd () const"
\fBThis function is obsolete.\fR It is provided to keep old source working. We strongly advise against using it in new code.
.PP
Returns the end iterator for the list if the variant's type is StringList; otherwise returns a null iterator.
.SH "const TQBitArray TQVariant::toBitArray () const"
Returns the variant as a TQBitArray if the variant has type() BitArray; otherwise returns an empty bitarray.
.PP
See also asBitArray().
.SH "const TQBitmap TQVariant::toBitmap () const"
Returns the variant as a TQBitmap if the variant has type() Bitmap; otherwise returns a null TQBitmap.
.PP
See also asBitmap().
.SH "bool TQVariant::toBool () const"
Returns the variant as a bool if the variant can be cast to Bool; otherWise returns FALSE.
.PP
Returns TRUE if the variant has a numeric type and its value is non-zero, or if the variant has type String, ByteArray or CString and its lower-case content is not empty, "0" or "false"; otherwise returns FALSE.
.PP
See also asBool() and canCast().
.SH "const TQBrush TQVariant::toBrush () const"
Returns the variant as a TQBrush if the variant has type() Brush; otherwise returns a default brush (with all black colors).
.PP
See also asBrush().
.SH "const TQByteArray TQVariant::toByteArray () const"
Returns the variant as a TQByteArray if the variant can be cast to a ByteArray; otherwise returns an empty bytearray.
.PP
See also asByteArray() and canCast().
.SH "const TQCString TQVariant::toCString () const"
Returns the variant as a TQCString if the variant can be cast to a CString; otherwise returns 0.
.PP
See also asCString() and canCast().
.SH "const TQColor TQVariant::toColor () const"
Returns the variant as a TQColor if the variant can be cast to Color; otherwise returns an invalid color.
.PP
See also asColor() and canCast().
.SH "const TQColorGroup TQVariant::toColorGroup () const"
Returns the variant as a TQColorGroup if the variant has type() ColorGroup; otherwise returns a completely black color group.
.PP
See also asColorGroup().
.SH "const TQCursor TQVariant::toCursor () const"
Returns the variant as a TQCursor if the variant has type() Cursor; otherwise returns the default arrow cursor.
.PP
See also asCursor().
.SH "const TQDate TQVariant::toDate () const"
Returns the variant as a TQDate if the variant can be cast to Date; otherwise returns an invalid date.
.PP
Note that if the type() is String, CString or ByteArray an invalid date will be returned if the string cannot be parsed as a TQt::ISODate format date.
.PP
See also asDate() and canCast().
.SH "const TQDateTime TQVariant::toDateTime () const"
Returns the variant as a TQDateTime if the variant can be cast to DateTime; otherwise returns an invalid TQDateTime.
.PP
Note that if the type() is String, CString or ByteArray an invalid TQDateTime will be returned if the string cannot be parsed as a TQt::ISODate format date/time.
.PP
See also asDateTime().
.SH "double TQVariant::toDouble ( bool * ok = 0 ) const"
Returns the variant as a double if the variant can be cast to Double; otherwise returns 0.0.
.PP
If \fIok\fR is non-null: \fI*ok\fR is set to TRUE if the value could be converted to a double; otherwise \fI*ok\fR is set to FALSE.
.PP
See also asDouble() and canCast().
.SH "const TQFont TQVariant::toFont () const"
Returns the variant as a TQFont if the variant can be cast to Font; otherwise returns the application's default font.
.PP
See also asFont() and canCast().
.SH "const TQIconSet TQVariant::toIconSet () const"
Returns the variant as a TQIconSet if the variant has type() IconSet; otherwise returns an icon set of null pixmaps.
.PP
See also asIconSet().
.SH "const TQImage TQVariant::toImage () const"
Returns the variant as a TQImage if the variant has type() Image; otherwise returns a null image.
.PP
See also asImage().
.SH "int TQVariant::toInt ( bool * ok = 0 ) const"
Returns the variant as an int if the variant can be cast to Int; otherwise returns 0.
.PP
If \fIok\fR is non-null: \fI*ok\fR is set to TRUE if the value could be converted to an int; otherwise \fI*ok\fR is set to FALSE.
.PP
See also asInt() and canCast().
.SH "const TQKeySequence TQVariant::toKeySequence () const"
Returns the variant as a TQKeySequence if the variant can be cast to a KeySequence; otherwise returns an empty key sequence.
.PP
See also asKeySequence() and canCast().
.SH "const TQValueList<TQVariant> TQVariant::toList () const"
Returns the variant as a TQValueList<TQVariant> if the variant has type() List or StringList; otherwise returns an empty list.
.PP
Note that if you want to iterate over the list, you should iterate over a copy, e.g.
.PP
.nf
.br
    TQValueList<TQVariant> list = myVariant.toList();
.br
    TQValueList<TQVariant>::Iterator it = list.begin();
.br
    while( it != list.end() ) {
.br
        myProcessing( *it );
.br
        ++it;
.br
    }
.br
.fi
.PP
See also asList().
.SH "TQ_LLONG TQVariant::toLongLong ( bool * ok = 0 ) const"
Returns the variant as a long long int if the variant can be cast to LongLong; otherwise returns 0.
.PP
If \fIok\fR is non-null: \fI*ok\fR is set to TRUE if the value could be converted to an int; otherwise \fI*ok\fR is set to FALSE.
.PP
See also asLongLong() and canCast().
.SH "const TQMap<TQString, TQVariant> TQVariant::toMap () const"
Returns the variant as a TQMap<TQString,TQVariant> if the variant has type() Map; otherwise returns an empty map.
.PP
Note that if you want to iterate over the map, you should iterate over a copy, e.g.
.PP
.nf
.br
    TQMap<TQString, TQVariant> map = myVariant.toMap();
.br
    TQMap<TQString, TQVariant>::Iterator it = map.begin();
.br
    while( it != map.end() ) {
.br
        myProcessing( *it );
.br
        ++it;
.br
    }
.br
.fi
.PP
See also asMap().
.SH "const TQPalette TQVariant::toPalette () const"
Returns the variant as a TQPalette if the variant has type() Palette; otherwise returns a completely black palette.
.PP
See also asPalette().
.SH "const TQPen TQVariant::toPen () const"
Returns the variant as a TQPen if the variant has type() Pen; otherwise returns an empty TQPen.
.PP
See also asPen().
.SH "const TQPixmap TQVariant::toPixmap () const"
Returns the variant as a TQPixmap if the variant has type() Pixmap; otherwise returns a null pixmap.
.PP
See also asPixmap().
.SH "const TQPoint TQVariant::toPoint () const"
Returns the variant as a TQPoint if the variant has type() Point; otherwise returns a point (0, 0).
.PP
See also asPoint().
.SH "const TQPointArray TQVariant::toPointArray () const"
Returns the variant as a TQPointArray if the variant has type() PointArray; otherwise returns an empty TQPointArray.
.PP
See also asPointArray().
.SH "const TQRect TQVariant::toRect () const"
Returns the variant as a TQRect if the variant has type() Rect; otherwise returns an empty rectangle.
.PP
See also asRect().
.SH "const TQRegion TQVariant::toRegion () const"
Returns the variant as a TQRegion if the variant has type() Region; otherwise returns an empty TQRegion.
.PP
See also asRegion().
.SH "const TQSize TQVariant::toSize () const"
Returns the variant as a TQSize if the variant has type() Size; otherwise returns an invalid size.
.PP
See also asSize().
.SH "TQSizePolicy TQVariant::toSizePolicy () const"
Returns the variant as a TQSizePolicy if the variant has type() SizePolicy; otherwise returns an undefined (but legal) size policy.
.SH "const TQString TQVariant::toString () const"
Returns the variant as a TQString if the variant can be cast to String, otherwise returns TQString::null.
.PP
See also asString() and canCast().
.SH "const TQStringList TQVariant::toStringList () const"
Returns the variant as a TQStringList if the variant has type() StringList or List of a type that can be converted to TQString; otherwise returns an empty list.
.PP
Note that if you want to iterate over the list, you should iterate over a copy, e.g.
.PP
.nf
.br
    TQStringList list = myVariant.toStringList();
.br
    TQStringList::Iterator it = list.begin();
.br
    while( it != list.end() ) {
.br
        myProcessing( *it );
.br
        ++it;
.br
    }
.br
.fi
.PP
See also asStringList().
.SH "const TQTime TQVariant::toTime () const"
Returns the variant as a TQTime if the variant can be cast to Time; otherwise returns an invalid date.
.PP
Note that if the type() is String, CString or ByteArray an invalid time will be returned if the string cannot be parsed as a TQt::ISODate format time.
.PP
See also asTime().
.SH "uint TQVariant::toUInt ( bool * ok = 0 ) const"
Returns the variant as an unsigned int if the variant can be cast to UInt; otherwise returns 0.
.PP
If \fIok\fR is non-null: \fI*ok\fR is set to TRUE if the value could be converted to an unsigned int; otherwise \fI*ok\fR is set to FALSE.
.PP
See also asUInt() and canCast().
.SH "TQ_ULLONG TQVariant::toULongLong ( bool * ok = 0 ) const"
Returns the variant as as an unsigned long long int if the variant can be cast to ULongLong; otherwise returns 0.
.PP
If \fIok\fR is non-null: \fI*ok\fR is set to TRUE if the value could be converted to an int; otherwise \fI*ok\fR is set to FALSE.
.PP
See also asULongLong() and canCast().
.SH "Type TQVariant::type () const"
Returns the storage type of the value stored in the variant. Usually it's best to test with canCast() whether the variant can deliver the data type you are interested in.
.SH "const char * TQVariant::typeName () const"
Returns the name of the type stored in the variant. The returned strings describe the C++ datatype used to store the data: for example, "TQFont", "TQString", or "TQValueList<TQVariant>". An Invalid variant returns 0.
.SH "const char * TQVariant::typeToName ( Type typ )\fC [static]\fR"
Converts the enum representation of the storage type, \fItyp\fR, to
its string representation.

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR http://doc.trolltech.com/tqvariant.html
.BR http://www.trolltech.com/faq/tech.html
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright 1992-2007 Trolltech ASA, http://www.trolltech.com.  See the
license file included in the distribution for a complete license
statement.
.SH AUTHOR
Generated automatically from the source code.
.SH BUGS
If you find a bug in Qt, please report it as described in
.BR http://doc.trolltech.com/bughowto.html .
Good bug reports help us to help you. Thank you.
.P
The definitive TQt documentation is provided in HTML format; it is
located at $TQTDIR/doc/html and can be read using TQt Assistant or with
a web browser. This man page is provided as a convenience for those
users who prefer man pages, although this format is not officially
supported by Trolltech. 
.P
If you find errors in this manual page, please report them to
.BR qt-bugs@trolltech.com .
Please include the name of the manual page (tqvariant.3qt) and the Qt
version (3.3.8).
