'\" t
.TH TQWMatrix 3qt "2 February 2007" "Trolltech AS" \" -*- nroff -*-
.\" Copyright 1992-2007 Trolltech ASA.  All rights reserved.  See the
.\" license file included in the distribution for a complete license
.\" statement.
.\"
.ad l
.nh
.SH NAME
TQWMatrix \- 2D transformations of a coordinate system
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fC#include <tqwmatrix.h>\fR
.PP
.SS "Public Members"
.in +1c
.ti -1c
.BI "\fBTQWMatrix\fR ()"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "\fBTQWMatrix\fR ( double m11, double m12, double m21, double m22, double dx, double dy )"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "void \fBsetMatrix\fR ( double m11, double m12, double m21, double m22, double dx, double dy )"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "double \fBm11\fR () const"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "double \fBm12\fR () const"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "double \fBm21\fR () const"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "double \fBm22\fR () const"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "double \fBdx\fR () const"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "double \fBdy\fR () const"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "void \fBmap\fR ( int x, int y, int * tx, int * ty ) const"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "void \fBmap\fR ( double x, double y, double * tx, double * ty ) const"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "TQRect \fBmapRect\fR ( const TQRect & rect ) const"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "TQPoint \fBmap\fR ( const TQPoint & p ) const"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "TQRect map ( const TQRect & r ) const  \fI(obsolete)\fR"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "TQPointArray \fBmap\fR ( const TQPointArray & a ) const"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "TQRegion \fBmap\fR ( const TQRegion & r ) const"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "TQRegion \fBmapToRegion\fR ( const TQRect & rect ) const"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "TQPointArray \fBmapToPolygon\fR ( const TQRect & rect ) const"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "void \fBreset\fR ()"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "bool \fBisIdentity\fR () const"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "TQWMatrix & \fBtranslate\fR ( double dx, double dy )"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "TQWMatrix & \fBscale\fR ( double sx, double sy )"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "TQWMatrix & \fBshear\fR ( double sh, double sv )"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "TQWMatrix & \fBrotate\fR ( double a )"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "bool \fBisInvertible\fR () const"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "double \fBdet\fR () const"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "TQWMatrix \fBinvert\fR ( bool * invertible = 0 ) const"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "bool \fBoperator==\fR ( const TQWMatrix & m ) const"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "bool \fBoperator!=\fR ( const TQWMatrix & m ) const"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "TQWMatrix & \fBoperator*=\fR ( const TQWMatrix & m )"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "enum \fBTransformationMode\fR { Points, Areas }"
.br
.in -1c
.SS "Static Public Members"
.in +1c
.ti -1c
.BI "void \fBsetTransformationMode\fR ( TQWMatrix::TransformationMode m )"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "TransformationMode \fBtransformationMode\fR ()"
.br
.in -1c
.SH RELATED FUNCTION DOCUMENTATION
.in +1c
.ti -1c
.BI "TQDataStream & \fBoperator<<\fR ( TQDataStream & s, const TQWMatrix & m )"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "TQDataStream & \fBoperator>>\fR ( TQDataStream & s, TQWMatrix & m )"
.br
.in -1c
.SH DESCRIPTION
The TQWMatrix class specifies 2D transformations of a coordinate system.
.PP
The standard coordinate system of a paint device has the origin located at the top-left position. X values increase to the right; Y values increase downward.
.PP
This coordinate system is the default for the TQPainter, which renders graphics in a paint device. A user-defined coordinate system can be specified by setting a TQWMatrix for the painter.
.PP
Example:
.PP
.nf
.br
        MyWidget::paintEvent( TQPaintEvent * )
.br
        {
.br
            TQPainter p;                      // our painter
.br
            TQWMatrix m;                      // our transformation matrix
.br
            m.rotate( 22.5 );                // rotated coordinate system
.br
            p.begin( this );                 // start painting
.br
            p.setWorldMatrix( m );           // use rotated coordinate system
.br
            p.drawText( 30,20, "detator" );  // draw rotated text at 30,20
.br
            p.end();                         // painting done
.br
        }
.br
.fi
.PP
A matrix specifies how to translate, scale, shear or rotate the graphics; the actual transformation is performed by the drawing routines in TQPainter and by TQPixmap::xForm().
.PP
The TQWMatrix class contains a 3x3 matrix of the form:
.nf
.TS
l
-
l.
m11	m12	0
m21	m22	0
dx	dy	1
.TE
.fi

.PP
A matrix transforms a point in the plane to another point:
.PP
.nf
.br
        x' = m11*x + m21*y + dx
.br
        y' = m22*y + m12*x + dy
.br
.fi
.PP
The point \fI(x, y)\fR is the original point, and \fI(x', y')\fR is the transformed point. \fI(x', y')\fR can be transformed back to \fI(x, y)\fR by performing the same operation on the inverted matrix.
.PP
The elements \fIdx\fR and \fIdy\fR specify horizontal and vertical translation. The elements \fIm11\fR and \fIm22\fR specify horizontal and vertical scaling. The elements \fIm12\fR and \fIm21\fR specify horizontal and vertical shearing.
.PP
The identity matrix has \fIm11\fR and \fIm22\fR set to 1; all others are set to 0. This matrix maps a point to itself.
.PP
Translation is the simplest transformation. Setting \fIdx\fR and \fIdy\fR will move the coordinate system \fIdx\fR units along the X axis and \fIdy\fR units along the Y axis.
.PP
Scaling can be done by setting \fIm11\fR and \fIm22\fR. For example, setting \fIm11\fR to 2 and \fIm22\fR to 1.5 will double the height and increase the width by 50%.
.PP
Shearing is controlled by \fIm12\fR and \fIm21\fR. Setting these elements to values different from zero will twist the coordinate system.
.PP
Rotation is achieved by carefully setting both the shearing factors and the scaling factors. The TQWMatrix also has a function that sets rotation directly.
.PP
TQWMatrix lets you combine transformations like this:
.PP
.nf
.br
        TQWMatrix m;           // identity matrix
.br
        m.translate(10, -20); // first translate (10,-20)
.br
        m.rotate(25);         // then rotate 25 degrees
.br
        m.scale(1.2, 0.7);    // finally scale it
.br
.fi
.PP
Here's the same example using basic matrix operations:
.PP
.nf
.br
        double a    = pi/180 * 25;         // convert 25 to radians
.br
        double sina = sin(a);
.br
        double cosa = cos(a);
.br
        TQWMatrix m1(1, 0, 0, 1, 10, -20);  // translation matrix
.br
        TQWMatrix m2( cosa, sina,           // rotation matrix
.br
                    -sina, cosa, 0, 0 );
.br
        TQWMatrix m3(1.2, 0, 0, 0.7, 0, 0); // scaling matrix
.br
        TQWMatrix m;
.br
        m = m3 * m2 * m1;                  // combine all transformations
.br
.fi
.PP
TQPainter has functions to translate, scale, shear and rotate the coordinate system without using a TQWMatrix. Although these functions are very convenient, it can be more efficient to build a TQWMatrix and call TQPainter::setWorldMatrix() if you want to perform more than a single transform operation.
.PP
See also TQPainter::setWorldMatrix(), TQPixmap::xForm(), Graphics Classes, and Image Processing Classes.
.SS "Member Type Documentation"
.SH "TQWMatrix::TransformationMode"

.PP
TQWMatrix offers two transformation modes. Calculations can either be done in terms of points (Points mode, the default), or in terms of area (Area mode).
.PP
In Points mode the transformation is applied to the points that mark out the shape's bounding line. In Areas mode the transformation is applied in such a way that the area of the contained region is correctly transformed under the matrix.
.TP
\fCTQWMatrix::Points\fR - transformations are applied to the shape's points.
.TP
\fCTQWMatrix::Areas\fR - transformations are applied (e.g. to the width and height) so that the area is transformed.
.PP
Example:
.PP
Suppose we have a rectangle, \fCTQRect( 10, 20, 30, 40 )\fR and a transformation matrix \fCTQWMatrix( 2, 0, 0, 2, 0, 0 )\fR to double the rectangle's size.
.PP
In Points mode, the matrix will transform the top-left (10,20) and the bottom-right (39,59) points producing a rectangle with its top-left point at (20,40) and its bottom-right point at (78,118), i.e. with a width of 59 and a height of 79.
.PP
In Areas mode, the matrix will transform the top-left point in the same way as in Points mode to (20/40), and double the width and height, so the bottom-right will become (69,99), i.e. a width of 60 and a height of 80.
.PP
Because integer arithmetic is used (for speed), rounding differences mean that the modes will produce slightly different results given the same shape and the same transformation, especially when scaling up. This also means that some operations are not commutative.
.PP
Under Points mode, \fCmatrix * ( region1 | region2 )\fR is not equal to \fCmatrix * region1 | matrix * region2\fR. Under Area mode, \fCmatrix * (pointarray[i])\fR is not neccesarily equal to \fC(matrix * pointarry)[i]\fR.
.PP
<center>
.ce 1
.B "[Image Omitted]"
.PP
</center>
.SH MEMBER FUNCTION DOCUMENTATION
.SH "TQWMatrix::TQWMatrix ()"
Constructs an identity matrix. All elements are set to zero except \fIm11\fR and \fIm22\fR (scaling), which are set to 1.
.SH "TQWMatrix::TQWMatrix ( double m11, double m12, double m21, double m22, double dx, double dy )"
Constructs a matrix with the elements, \fIm11\fR, \fIm12\fR, \fIm21\fR, \fIm22\fR, \fIdx\fR and \fIdy\fR.
.SH "double TQWMatrix::det () const"
Returns the matrix's determinant.
.SH "double TQWMatrix::dx () const"
Returns the horizontal translation.
.SH "double TQWMatrix::dy () const"
Returns the vertical translation.
.SH "TQWMatrix TQWMatrix::invert ( bool * invertible = 0 ) const"
Returns the inverted matrix.
.PP
If the matrix is singular (not invertible), the identity matrix is returned.
.PP
If \fIinvertible\fR is not 0: the value of \fI*invertible\fR is set to TRUE if the matrix is invertible; otherwise \fI*invertible\fR is set to FALSE.
.PP
See also isInvertible().
.PP
Example: t14/cannon.cpp.
.SH "bool TQWMatrix::isIdentity () const"
Returns TRUE if the matrix is the identity matrix; otherwise returns FALSE.
.PP
See also reset().
.SH "bool TQWMatrix::isInvertible () const"
Returns TRUE if the matrix is invertible; otherwise returns FALSE.
.PP
See also invert().
.SH "double TQWMatrix::m11 () const"
Returns the X scaling factor.
.SH "double TQWMatrix::m12 () const"
Returns the vertical shearing factor.
.SH "double TQWMatrix::m21 () const"
Returns the horizontal shearing factor.
.SH "double TQWMatrix::m22 () const"
Returns the Y scaling factor.
.SH "void TQWMatrix::map ( int x, int y, int * tx, int * ty ) const"
Transforms ( \fIx\fR, \fIy\fR ) to ( \fI*tx\fR, \fI*ty\fR ) using the formulae:
.PP
.nf
.br
        *tx = m11*x + m21*y + dx  (rounded to the nearest integer)
.br
        *ty = m22*y + m12*x + dy  (rounded to the nearest integer)
.br
.fi
.PP
Examples:
.)l t14/cannon.cpp and xform/xform.cpp.
.SH "void TQWMatrix::map ( double x, double y, double * tx, double * ty ) const"
This is an overloaded member function, provided for convenience. It behaves essentially like the above function.
.PP
Transforms ( \fIx\fR, \fIy\fR ) to ( \fI*tx\fR, \fI*ty\fR ) using the following formulae:
.PP
.nf
.br
        *tx = m11*x + m21*y + dx
.br
        *ty = m22*y + m12*x + dy
.br
.fi
.SH "TQPoint TQWMatrix::map ( const TQPoint & p ) const"
This is an overloaded member function, provided for convenience. It behaves essentially like the above function.
.PP
Transforms \fIp\fR to using the formulae:
.PP
.nf
.br
        retx = m11*px + m21*py + dx  (rounded to the nearest integer)
.br
        rety = m22*py + m12*px + dy  (rounded to the nearest integer)
.br
.fi
.SH "TQRect TQWMatrix::map ( const TQRect & r ) const"
\fBThis function is obsolete.\fR It is provided to keep old source working. We strongly advise against using it in new code.
.PP
Please use TQWMatrix::mapRect() instead.
.PP
Note that this method does return the bounding rectangle of the \fIr\fR, when shearing or rotations are used.
.SH "TQPointArray TQWMatrix::map ( const TQPointArray & a ) const"
This is an overloaded member function, provided for convenience. It behaves essentially like the above function.
.PP
Returns the point array \fIa\fR transformed by calling map for each point.
.SH "TQRegion TQWMatrix::map ( const TQRegion & r ) const"
This is an overloaded member function, provided for convenience. It behaves essentially like the above function.
.PP
Transforms the region \fIr\fR.
.PP
Calling this method can be rather expensive, if rotations or shearing are used.
.SH "TQRect TQWMatrix::mapRect ( const TQRect & rect ) const"
Returns the transformed rectangle \fIrect\fR.
.PP
The bounding rectangle is returned if rotation or shearing has been specified.
.PP
If you need to know the exact region \fIrect\fR maps to use operator*().
.PP
See also operator*().
.PP
Example: xform/xform.cpp.
.SH "TQPointArray TQWMatrix::mapToPolygon ( const TQRect & rect ) const"
Returns the transformed rectangle \fIrect\fR as a polygon.
.PP
Polygons and rectangles behave slightly differently when transformed (due to integer rounding), so \fCmatrix.map( TQPointArray( rect ) )\fR is not always the same as \fCmatrix.mapToPolygon( rect )\fR.
.SH "TQRegion TQWMatrix::mapToRegion ( const TQRect & rect ) const"
Returns the transformed rectangle \fIrect\fR.
.PP
A rectangle which has been rotated or sheared may result in a non-rectangular region being returned.
.PP
Calling this method can be expensive, if rotations or shearing are used. If you just need to know the bounding rectangle of the returned region, use mapRect() which is a lot faster than this function.
.PP
See also TQWMatrix::mapRect().
.SH "bool TQWMatrix::operator!= ( const TQWMatrix & m ) const"
Returns TRUE if this matrix is not equal to \fIm\fR; otherwise returns FALSE.
.SH "TQWMatrix & TQWMatrix::operator*= ( const TQWMatrix & m )"
Returns the result of multiplying this matrix by matrix \fIm\fR.
.SH "bool TQWMatrix::operator== ( const TQWMatrix & m ) const"
Returns TRUE if this matrix is equal to \fIm\fR; otherwise returns FALSE.
.SH "void TQWMatrix::reset ()"
Resets the matrix to an identity matrix.
.PP
All elements are set to zero, except \fIm11\fR and \fIm22\fR (scaling) which are set to 1.
.PP
See also isIdentity().
.SH "TQWMatrix & TQWMatrix::rotate ( double a )"
Rotates the coordinate system \fIa\fR degrees counterclockwise.
.PP
Returns a reference to the matrix.
.PP
See also translate(), scale(), and shear().
.PP
Examples:
.)l canvas/canvas.cpp, desktop/desktop.cpp, drawdemo/drawdemo.cpp, t14/cannon.cpp, and xform/xform.cpp.
.SH "TQWMatrix & TQWMatrix::scale ( double sx, double sy )"
Scales the coordinate system unit by \fIsx\fR horizontally and \fIsy\fR vertically.
.PP
Returns a reference to the matrix.
.PP
See also translate(), shear(), and rotate().
.PP
Examples:
.)l canvas/canvas.cpp, fileiconview/tqfileiconview.cpp, movies/main.cpp, qmag/qmag.cpp, showimg/showimg.cpp, and xform/xform.cpp.
.SH "void TQWMatrix::setMatrix ( double m11, double m12, double m21, double m22, double dx, double dy )"
Sets the matrix elements to the specified values, \fIm11\fR, \fIm12\fR, \fIm21\fR, \fIm22\fR, \fIdx\fR and \fIdy\fR.
.SH "void TQWMatrix::setTransformationMode ( TQWMatrix::TransformationMode m )\fC [static]\fR"
Sets the transformation mode that TQWMatrix and painter transformations use to \fIm\fR.
.PP
See also TQWMatrix::TransformationMode.
.SH "TQWMatrix & TQWMatrix::shear ( double sh, double sv )"
Shears the coordinate system by \fIsh\fR horizontally and \fIsv\fR vertically.
.PP
Returns a reference to the matrix.
.PP
See also translate(), scale(), and rotate().
.PP
Examples:
.)l drawdemo/drawdemo.cpp and xform/xform.cpp.
.SH "TransformationMode TQWMatrix::transformationMode ()\fC [static]\fR"
Returns the current transformation mode.
.PP
See also TQWMatrix::TransformationMode.
.SH "TQWMatrix & TQWMatrix::translate ( double dx, double dy )"
Moves the coordinate system \fIdx\fR along the X-axis and \fIdy\fR along the Y-axis.
.PP
Returns a reference to the matrix.
.PP
See also scale(), shear(), and rotate().
.PP
Examples:
.)l canvas/canvas.cpp, drawdemo/drawdemo.cpp, t14/cannon.cpp, and xform/xform.cpp.
.SH RELATED FUNCTION DOCUMENTATION
.SH "TQDataStream & operator<< ( TQDataStream & s, const TQWMatrix & m )"
Writes the matrix \fIm\fR to the stream \fIs\fR and returns a reference to the stream.
.PP
See also Format of the TQDataStream operators.
.SH "TQDataStream & operator>> ( TQDataStream & s, TQWMatrix & m )"
Reads the matrix \fIm\fR from the stream \fIs\fR and returns a reference to the stream.
.PP
See also Format of the TQDataStream operators.

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR http://doc.trolltech.com/tqwmatrix.html
.BR http://www.trolltech.com/faq/tech.html
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright 1992-2007 Trolltech ASA, http://www.trolltech.com.  See the
license file included in the distribution for a complete license
statement.
.SH AUTHOR
Generated automatically from the source code.
.SH BUGS
If you find a bug in Qt, please report it as described in
.BR http://doc.trolltech.com/bughowto.html .
Good bug reports help us to help you. Thank you.
.P
The definitive TQt documentation is provided in HTML format; it is
located at $TQTDIR/doc/html and can be read using TQt Assistant or with
a web browser. This man page is provided as a convenience for those
users who prefer man pages, although this format is not officially
supported by Trolltech. 
.P
If you find errors in this manual page, please report them to
.BR qt-bugs@trolltech.com .
Please include the name of the manual page (tqwmatrix.3qt) and the Qt
version (3.3.8).
