'\" t
.TH TQXmlEntityResolver 3qt "2 February 2007" "Trolltech AS" \" -*- nroff -*-
.\" Copyright 1992-2007 Trolltech ASA.  All rights reserved.  See the
.\" license file included in the distribution for a complete license
.\" statement.
.\"
.ad l
.nh
.SH NAME
TQXmlEntityResolver \- Interface to resolve external entities contained in XML data
.SH SYNOPSIS
All the functions in this class are reentrant when TQt is built with thread support.</p>
.PP
\fC#include <tqxml.h>\fR
.PP
Inherited by TQXmlDefaultHandler.
.PP
.SS "Public Members"
.in +1c
.ti -1c
.BI "virtual bool \fBresolveEntity\fR ( const TQString & publicId, const TQString & systemId, TQXmlInputSource *& ret ) = 0"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "virtual TQString \fBerrorString\fR () = 0"
.br
.in -1c
.SH DESCRIPTION
The TQXmlEntityResolver class provides an interface to resolve external entities contained in XML data.
.PP
If an application needs to implement customized handling for external entities, it must implement this interface, i.e. resolveEntity(), and register it with TQXmlReader::setEntityResolver().
.PP
See also the Introduction to SAX2.
.PP
See also TQXmlDTDHandler, TQXmlDeclHandler, TQXmlContentHandler, TQXmlErrorHandler, TQXmlLexicalHandler, and XML.
.SH MEMBER FUNCTION DOCUMENTATION
.SH "TQString TQXmlEntityResolver::errorString ()\fC [pure virtual]\fR"
The reader calls this function to get an error string if any of the handler functions returns FALSE.
.SH "bool TQXmlEntityResolver::resolveEntity ( const TQString & publicId, const TQString & systemId, TQXmlInputSource *& ret )\fC [pure virtual]\fR"
The reader calls this function before it opens any external entity, except the top-level document entity. The application may request the reader to resolve the entity itself (\fIret\fR is 0) or to use an entirely different input source (\fIret\fR points to the input source).
.PP
The reader deletes the input source \fIret\fR when it no longer needs it, so you should allocate it on the heap with \fCnew\fR.
.PP
The argument \fIpublicId\fR is the public identifier of the external entity, \fIsystemId\fR is the system identifier of the external entity and \fIret\fR is the return value of this function. If \fIret\fR is 0 the reader should resolve the entity itself, if it is non-zero it must point to an input source which the reader uses instead.
.PP
If this function returns FALSE the reader stops parsing and
reports an error. The reader uses the function errorString() to
get the error message.

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR http://doc.trolltech.com/tqxmlentityresolver.html
.BR http://www.trolltech.com/faq/tech.html
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright 1992-2007 Trolltech ASA, http://www.trolltech.com.  See the
license file included in the distribution for a complete license
statement.
.SH AUTHOR
Generated automatically from the source code.
.SH BUGS
If you find a bug in Qt, please report it as described in
.BR http://doc.trolltech.com/bughowto.html .
Good bug reports help us to help you. Thank you.
.P
The definitive TQt documentation is provided in HTML format; it is
located at $TQTDIR/doc/html and can be read using TQt Assistant or with
a web browser. This man page is provided as a convenience for those
users who prefer man pages, although this format is not officially
supported by Trolltech. 
.P
If you find errors in this manual page, please report them to
.BR qt-bugs@trolltech.com .
Please include the name of the manual page (tqxmlentityresolver.3qt) and the Qt
version (3.3.8).
