.TH "tqtdesigner" "1" "3.0.3" "Troll Tech AS, Norway." ""
.SH "NAME"
.LP 
tqtdesigner \- Visual user interface designer for TQt.
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.LP 
TQt Designer simplifies the process of designing and
creating graphical user interfaces (GUI) using the
award\-winning TQt toolkit. TQt Designer is easy to learn.
There are tutorials, walkthrough examples and the
reference documentation accelerating you through the
learning phase. After that, TQt Designer greatly reduces
the time and effort needed to develop even the most
complex dialogs with an easy\-to\-use GUI and an integrated
help system.

 TQt Designer provides a rich set of features aimed at
making the creation of dialogs as easy and smooth as
possible without reducing the power of Qt. It offers all
the strength of the TQt layout system with a well\-designed
user interface. This, combined with the TQt Designer's
undo/redo system makes it simple to try different
arrangements of the widgets until the result satisfies
you.

 Using TQt Designer's convenient property editor along
with the dynamic TQt property system it is easy to set the
initial state of your widgets. Special editors for some
widgets (like listboxes, comboboxes, etc.) allow you to
fill these widgets with content without writing any code.
Using the object hierarchy view, the parent\-child
relationship between the widgets of a dialog can be
understood at a glance.

 Integrating dialogs into a TQt project is straightforward
thanks to the User Interface Compiler (UIC), which
generates C++ code from the XML dialog description on the
fly. The programmer can easily extend the functionality
of the generated classes by subclassing without touching
generated code at all or running the risk of loosing
their changes.
.SH "FILES"
.LP 
\fI/usr/share/qt/tools/designer/*\fP 
.SH "ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES"
.LP 
.TP 
\fBTQTDIR\fP
Specifies the TQt base directory.  On Debian systems this
should be set to /usr/share/qt.  The /usr/bin/designer
wrapper script takes care of this.
.SH "AUTHORS"
.LP 
TrollTech <http://www.trolltech.com/>
