.TH tqlrelease 1 "18 October 2001" "Trolltech AS" \" -*- nroff -*-
.\"
.\" Copyright (C) 2001-2007 Trolltech ASA.  All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" This file may be used under the terms of the GNU General Public
.\" License versions 2.0 or 3.0 as published by the Free Software
.\" Foundation and appearing in the file LICENSE.GPL included in the
.\" packaging of this file. Alternatively you may (at your option) use any
.\" later version of the GNU General Public License if such license has
.\" been publicly approved by Trolltech ASA (or its successors, if any)
.\" and the KDE Free TQt Foundation.
.\"
.\" Please review the following information to ensure GNU General
.\" Public Licensing requirements will be met:
.\" http://trolltech.com/products/qt/licenses/licensing/opensource/.
.\" If you are unsure which license is appropriate for your use, please
.\" review the following information:
.\" http://trolltech.com/products/qt/licenses/licensing/licensingoverview
.\" or contact the sales department at sales@trolltech.com.
.\"
.\" Licensees holding valid TQt Commercial licenses may use this file in
.\" accordance with the TQt Commercial License Agreement provided with
.\" the Software.
.\"
.\" This file is provided "AS IS" with NO WARRANTY OF ANY KIND,
.\" INCLUDING THE WARRANTIES OF DESIGN, MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR
.\" A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. Trolltech reserves all rights not granted
.\" herein.
.\"
.SH NAME
tqlrelease \- generate TQt message files from TQt Linguist translation files
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B tqlrelease
.RI "[ " options " ] " project-file
.br
.B tqlrelease
.RI "[ " options " ] " ts-files " [ -qm " qm-file " ]"
.SH DESCRIPTION
This page documents the
.B TQt Linguist Release
tool for the TQt GUI toolkit.
.B Lrelease
reads a tqmake/tmake project file (.pro file) and converts the
translation files (.ts files) specified in it into TQt message files
(.qm files) used by the application to translate.
.PP
The .qm file format is a compact binary format that provides
extremely fast lookups for translations and that is used by Qt.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.I "-help"
Display the usage and exit.
.TP
.I "-nocompress"
Do not compress the .qm files.
.TP
.I "-verbose"
Explain what is being done.
.TP
.I "-version"
Display the version of
.B tqlrelease
and exit.
.SH USAGE
Here is an example .pro file that can be given to
.B tqlrelease:
.PP
.in +4
.nf
HEADERS         = funnydialog.h \\
                  wackywidget.h
SOURCES         = funnydialog.cpp \\
                  main.cpp \\
                  wackywidget.cpp
FORMS           = fancybox.ui
TRANSLATIONS    = gnomovision_dk.ts \\
                  gnomovision_fi.ts \\
                  gnomovision_no.ts \\
                  gnomovision_se.ts
.fi
.in -4
.PP
When running
.B tqlrelease
on this project file, the TQt message files gnomovision_dk.qm,
gnomovision_fi.qm, gnomovision_no.qm and gnomovision_se.qm will be
generated from gnomovision_dk.ts, gnomovision_fi.ts,
gnomovision_no.ts and gnomovision_se.ts, respectively.
.PP
.B Lrelease
can also be invoked with a list of .ts files to convert:
.PP
.in +4
.nf
tqlrelease gnomovision_*.ts
.fi
.in -4
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR tqlupdate (1)
and
.BR https://trinitydesktop.org/docs/qt3/i18n.html
