.TH tqlupdate 1 "18 October 2001" "Trolltech AS" \" -*- nroff -*-
.\"
.\" Copyright (C) 2001-2007 Trolltech ASA.  All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" This file may be used under the terms of the GNU General Public
.\" License versions 2.0 or 3.0 as published by the Free Software
.\" Foundation and appearing in the file LICENSE.GPL included in the
.\" packaging of this file. Alternatively you may (at your option) use any
.\" later version of the GNU General Public License if such license has
.\" been publicly approved by Trolltech ASA (or its successors, if any)
.\" and the KDE Free TQt Foundation.
.\"
.\" Please review the following information to ensure GNU General
.\" Public Licensing requirements will be met:
.\" http://trolltech.com/products/qt/licenses/licensing/opensource/.
.\" If you are unsure which license is appropriate for your use, please
.\" review the following information:
.\" http://trolltech.com/products/qt/licenses/licensing/licensingoverview
.\" or contact the sales department at sales@trolltech.com.
.\"
.\" Licensees holding valid TQt Commercial licenses may use this file in
.\" accordance with the TQt Commercial License Agreement provided with
.\" the Software.
.\"
.\" This file is provided "AS IS" with NO WARRANTY OF ANY KIND,
.\" INCLUDING THE WARRANTIES OF DESIGN, MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR
.\" A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. Trolltech reserves all rights not granted
.\" herein.
.\"
.SH NAME
tqlupdate \- update TQt Linguist translation files
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B tqlupdate
.RI "[ " options " ] " project-file
.br
.B tqlupdate
.RI "[ " options " ] " source-files " -ts " ts-files
.SH DESCRIPTION
This page documents the
.B TQt Linguist Update
tool for the TQt GUI toolkit.
.B Lupdate
reads a tqmake/tmake project file (.pro file), finds the translatable
strings in the specified source, header and interface files, and
updates the translation files (.ts files) specified in it. The
translation files are given to the translator who uses
.B TQt Linguist
to read the files and insert the translations.
.PP
The .ts file format is a simple human-readable XML format that can be
used with version control systems if required.
.PP
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.I "-help"
Display the usage and exit.
.TP
.I "-noobsolete"
Drop all obsolete strings.
.TP
.I "-verbose"
Explain what is being done.
.TP
.I "-version"
Display the version of
.B tqlupdate
and exit.
.SH USAGE
Here is an example .pro file that can be given to
.B tqlupdate:
.PP
.in +4
.nf
HEADERS         = funnydialog.h \\
                  wackywidget.h
SOURCES         = funnydialog.cpp \\
                  main.cpp \\
                  wackywidget.cpp
FORMS           = fancybox.ui
TRANSLATIONS    = gnomovision_dk.ts \\
                  gnomovision_fi.ts \\
                  gnomovision_no.ts \\
                  gnomovision_se.ts
.fi
.in -4
.PP
When running
.B tqlupdate
on this project file, the translatable strings in all the files
listed in the HEADERS, SOURCES and FORMS entries will be put in
the translation files listed in the TRANSLATIONS entry. Previous
translations will be reused as far as possible, and translated
strings that have vanished from the source files are marked obsolete.
.PP
.B Lupdate
can also be invoked with a list of C++ source files, .ui files
and .ts files:
.PP
.in +4
.nf
tqlupdate *.cpp *.h *.ui -ts gnomovision_dk.ts
.fi
.in -4
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR tqlrelease (1)
and
.BR https://trinitydesktop.org/docs/qt3/i18n.html
